Milady World Minecraft Server White Paper
Michael Dragovic • Onno Morrison • Charlie Fang
November 18, 2021

Abstract
Milady World is an experimental project into the nature of online socialization and emer­
gent virtual spaces of immersion and embodiment therein, engendered as an online multi­
player server in Minecraft. This Minecraft world and its content is curated according to our
opinionated view on the aforementioned, which we thoroughly present, tending to freeform
and unrestricted gameplay through exploration, socially and spontaneously realized acts of
beauty and aesthetics, and cohesion through progressive challenges in a microcosm of dis­
covered information and experience. Both manual and algorithmic methods are used for
Milady World, the process and usage of which, culminating into its first playable island, we
express from start to finish . We show how the vision of Remilia and the Milady project is
transfigured into the extensive capabilities of Minecraft and can serve to be exemplary for
contemporary aspirations of web3 & crypto­related spheres to create so­called ‘Metaverses’
for digital communities.

WARNING: The following information was written before the launch of the Milady World
Minecraft Server. It contains planning and speculation which may be much different than
its realization and progression into the server at the time of reading.

Contents
1 Editor’s Introduction

3

2 Background: Minecraft’s Significance
2.1 A True Open World . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.2 Infinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.3 Accessible Specifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8
9
10
11

3 Why Web3 Minecraft Community, Why Now?
3.1 Coming VReality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.1.1 Movement and virtual interfacing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.2 Minecraft is Virtual Golf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.3 Minecraft­Discord­Urbit Daisychain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

13
13
14
14
16

4 Map Design
4.1 World Creator & Worldpainter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4.2 Terra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4.3 Isle of Milady: Ingame . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

18
19
21
23

5 Commentary
5.1 On Progression . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.2 On Socialized Beauty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.3 On Generation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.4 On Spawn Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.5 Milady World’s Spawn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.6 Milady Fishing Village, or The Archipelago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.7 Restricting the Nether and the End . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.8 On the Journey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.9 On Casuals vs. Try­hards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.10 On Exploration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

26
26
27
28
30
30
31
33
34
35
38

6 Conclusion

40

2

1 Editor’s Introduction
Milady World is a Minecraft server created with firm principles developed over more than a
decade of playing the vanilla game, various modpack versions of the game, and through the
experience of nearly every possible playstyle in both single and multiplayer1 . The developers
of this Minecraft server saw it as an opportunity to realize everything about the game we felt
needed improvement or innovation, to achieve the ultimate version of Minecraft. It is safe to
say the server is highly opinionated, though we’d prefer to see it as a Manifesto, and this white
paper serves as its pre­chronicle and user’s manual.
As with all creations, there is a steady compromise between vision and reality. The concepts
discussed henceforth will not all be fully realized by the time of writing. Many may be realized
in the future, some may never fully be integrated into the server. Differing opinions exist on
how to make a perfect Minecraft server, you are simply reading ours 2 .

~
Ever since the modern conception of immersive experiences detached from physical reality
within an interactive mode of operation, the pre­eminent hopes and desires of humanity have
always directed towards the total fulfilment of said immersion: an experience not only func­
tionally indistinguishable from reality, but far more vivid and eclectic; an experience which
in the creative and technological sphere of the 80s and 90s would be addressed as ‘virtual
reality,’ ‘cyberspace’ and later on – taking after Neal Stephenson’s novel Snow Crash – ‘the
metaverse,’ the latter of which is also seeing popularized usage within the sphere of crypto
today.
The advent of video games themselves stems from a playful willingness to display one’s
coding skill for creative output which pushes & showcases the boundary of the machine it
is produced on, with precedence. Before the gross commodification of the internet – before
even the internet itself – the computer was the playground of the perspicacious hacker, the
coder­otaku and anyone who could appreciate their efforts. Take for example, the so­called
‘demoscene’ which flourished in the before­times, which expressed amicable competition to
display one’s creative and technical output in the form of shared files and programs called
demos. This scene developed as a social circle of locales, both within online spheres and as
real­life meetups, and had no clear wall between friendships of the real and the online. An
example of a contemporaneous demo can be seen in Fig. 1
Looking further downstream, video games have always had a high degree of sociality when
they were able to make players interact with each other in real­time, which could initially, in an
online environment, be found within both text­based and graphical roleplaying games through
MUDs 3 , engendering imaginative thought akin to the conceits and systems of Dungeons &
Dragons; and ever since the release of Doom, a direct online socialization experience in the
form of highly competitive play, immersion within a 3D world that draws in every participant
and transmogrifies them into their virtual persona, in this case a playername associated with
a perception that ranges from Nemesis to Noob.

1
It is no mere coincidence that we at Remilia Collective are so illustrious in our projects as this reflects
the mindset we have carried throughout our personal development. In another world, Milady could have been
redefining esports, players whose caliber would be unmatched in the gaming world, forever; a golden age ushered
in not by the mechanical greatness and artistic splendor of the games, but by the raw, unrelenting rockstars of
gamers that could not seem to fail at succeeding, no matter what. It would not have been a chance occurrence for
real gunshots to have been fired at us in scathing envy during many a tournament, all of which would have been
effortlessly intuited by any of us, ‘clutching it IRL’, as they would say. We are simply THAT good at Minecraft.
2

A cute sentiment, one which I cannot stand by: this paper presents the ultimate vision of Minecraft,
though not one that is necessarily achievable today.
3

Multi­User Dungeon, a type of real­time online multiplayer roleplaying game defined in its wide sense,
not to be confused with the many conceits and shackled discussion of the commonly used ‘RPG’ term slung around
in the realm of post­text VideoGaming.

3

Figure 1: A screenshot taken from the Technological Death demo by Mad
Elks (1993) made for the Amiga home computer. Demos are meant to wow
and awe those viewing them with visual & musical prowess and mad code
skillz, maxing out on presentation within stringent creation time and file size
limits. Accessed from https://ada.untergrund.net/?p=demo&i=68.
The excitement for gamelike virtual worlds continued into the early MMORPGs 4 , such as
Ultima Online, Everquest and Phantasy Star Online, which were popular, seminal titles at the
cusp of the 21st century that combined individual focus and progression with an encompass­
ing community effort within an immersive, persistent fantasy world, and the inherent layer of
socialization therein.
This social foundation proved to be so influential that it soon developed into spheres that
were less games than they were materialistic appropriation, stylistic assessment and socialite
cloutgathering within a cohesive virtual reality, a social facsimile and simulation, a true stretch
of what the term Massively Multiplayer Online could actually entail; notable examples of which
are Second Life, IMVU, Habbo Hotel 5 and especially as precursor to wide­sense brand appro­
priation and advertisement, Playstation Home, depicted in Fig. 2.
In recent times, consumer availability of capable – for current graphical standards – virtual
reality headsets and controllers have lurched virtual worlds towards a breakthrough in immer­
sion due to the heightened mode of audiovisual and proprioceptive engagement they offer.
Many games have thus included VR­supported modes, and VR social hangout spheres such as
VRChat enjoy a great deal of popularity.
4

Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game, that is, Massively Multiplayer Online ‘RPG’, the MMO
part of which oft is used to address these spaces in casual conversation between gamers, which, without appending
a G for Game or S for space, neither of which I’ve heard anyone even try, could denote any form of online network
which offers full interaction between its users and is not to be used in a chiefly solitary setting. Ironically a pendant
to the nebulous strictures of definition for an ‘RPG,’ the MMO could be denoting a simple public chatroom. Or, if
a gamelike experience is required, a game of emoji connect four within that same simple public chatroom.
5

Whilst Habbo Hotel’s isometric pixelart certainly seems like a dated entry in terms of immersion even
when compared to its contemporaries, one must understand its simplicity is a form of accessibility key to user
retention; Habbo could be played straight from the browser & was quick to interface with; given enough comfort
and stimulation, people can immerse themselves with even the most rudimentary setting and materials ―not to
accuse Habbo hotel to such an extent, it had fluid mechanics. Pixelart additionally has proven itself irresistible to
the sensibilities of the discerning gamer, ubiquitously, ever since its inception with early computer graphics. Do
YOU own a pixelart NFT right this moment? If yes, add your name at the bottom of this document.

4

Figure 2: A simple, but wholly representative display of Playstation Home’s
aesthetic and graphics: not unlike present day, present time aspiration to­
wards a Metaverse, it adopted a reasonably photo­realistic default, which
became incontrovertibly blended with its implemented commercial content,
each importing its own visual style, each asserting itself in a phantasmagori­
cally, uncanny carnival of the senses that make up its whole. A Bomberman
mascot suit playing reversi with an indistinct woman, on Locoroco island. In­
sane. Source: ME. I AM THE MASCOT.
These days, many crypto projects try to integrate their vision with elements of gamification
and possibly initiation of virtual worlds therein, be it to capitalize on coincidentally formed
community narrative, or deliberated expansion for the purpose of grasping the luster that these
elements seem to hold.

~
However, social virtual worlds and their development are perpetually limited by rate of engage­
ment or arousal and the current technological paradigm: not only must the content offered by
the virtual world be enthralling to a degree that allows the developers to carve out a niche in
the Net, garnering a sustainable userbase, this userbase then too is indicative of the future of
the virtual world as social platform through the culture that forms inside and surrounding it,
wrought from the userbase’s outwardly portrayed interests and sensibilities.
Failure to establish such an userbase spells imminent death for the virtual world, which
is why often gamelike elements are introduced to provide users with a solitary experience
that is obviously enhanced when engaging with others, see also Fig. 3, charting user sentiment
towards social drives in EverQuest 6 and Fig. 4, plotting guild size over the playerbase of World
of Warcraft as a gauge for ingroup communities 7 .
These worlds often play into users’ sense of materialistic style, by allowing them to cus­
tomize their virtual persona to great lengths; this can also be seen in the creation of personal
spaces with custom landscaping, architectural and interior design; both of these elements can
be compounded with free or curated community additions, enclosed within the virtual world’s
overarching structure of monetization for upkeep and development, which enables currency
substantiated value of ownership as an important side effect that must not be overlooked.
6

Yee, N. (2001). The Norrathian scrolls: A study of EverQuest. Nick Yee.

7

Williams, D., Ducheneaut, N., Xiong, L., Zhang, Y., Yee, N., & Nickell, E. (2006). From tree house to
barracks: The social life of guilds in World of Warcraft. Games and culture, 1(4), 338­361.

5

Figure 3: Chart taken from a study by Yee (2001), in which EverQuest players
were asked numerous questions regarding sentiment (so­called ”Question­
naire”) concerning the game’s various in­and meta­game aspects, relating
them to sociality both within the online environment and real­life and their
interplay. Due to the seminal nature of EverQuest as a social virtual world
and the concentrated, less commodified or disingenuous nature of the inter­
net when the study was conducted, we deem it a valuable resource to observe
social dynamics to anticipate on and enrich for digital worlds in the present
day and future. The chart itself highlights meta­game aspects for enjoyment
of the game. It can be seen that whilst all of these common reasons for gam­
ing enjoyment line up with player opinion, the most prevailing for men and
women alike constitutes immersion and social engagement, an observation
that is concordant with the rest of the study6 .
Eventually however, these injections of immersive materialism are often outpaced by the
industry consensus on graphical development, which both stifles immersive experience with
its perpetual restrictions imposed in terms of increasing development costs and processing
power/time, as it furthers development of bigger projects through cash inflow –and with bud­
ding competitors entering the market, fleeting as they might be, dated gamelike virtual worlds
slowly but surely bleed to death as their userbase dwindles – or simply gets bored – and their
cultures dissolve, whilst they wallow in obscurity or brokenness for years to come in a corpu­
lent, oft mismanaged state that is impossible to revitalize.
A suitable teleology for mitigating and delaying such a lot would be to make the codebase
expendable and the curated graphical style independent of destructive trends in the never
ending chase for photorealism8 , so that spiritual successors, transfers of assets or simply con­
tinued, productive development become a tenable possibility.
Avoiding fatal eventualities entirely is improbable at best, which is why the Mill for the
Metaverse and entitling the eminence of ‘The’ is ever so cruel; tying NFTs to a gamified col­
lectible within a metaverse­aspiring virtual world – or from an inverted perspective, tokenizing
into NFT the game assets/items/collectibles themselves and having their value tied to the in­
terplay of game mechanics and aesthetics – is the decentralized dream of a practice which has
been standardized in centralized form 9 within the multiplayer videogame industry for over a
decade.
The difficulty lies in creating a cohesive, immersive world within the allotted timespan
8

Anonymous (2019). Against New Games, www.extortionindustry.org

9

Centralized as in centralized assets, the platforms addressed here which employ microtransactional
and/or progression­based collectibles do not allow any form of permanence of ownership outside of said plat­
form; Steam items can be traded on the Steam community market for credit and vice versa, but any other form of
real money trading (RMT) is strictly prohibited and the permanence of one’s items goes only as far as the perma­
nence of one’s Steam account; centralized virtual socialization and gaming platforms could be tied together with
decentralized, thus on­chain assets regardless.

6

Figure 4: Plot from a study by Williams et al. (2006) exploring sociality within
World of Warcraft guilds as primary cohesive ingroup within the game’s online
environment7 . For elucidation on abbreviations used, please refer to Note 12.
Observe that players are more likely to form close­knit communities by limted
inclusion of members into guilds, most often remaining under 100 players in
total; this is further encouraged by heightened bonding through inclusion of
mechanics such as PvP and RP, directive for competitive and immersive play
respectively. An interesting phenomenon is that guild sizes in PvE servers
flourish around approximately 250 players per guild, which is probably due
to their propensity towards mass­player curated ‘environment’ content and
challenges in the form of raids and open world bosses.
physical reality allows; crypto moves fast and NFTs move even faster; the successful modus
operandi for most gamified NFT collections through metaverse allure and support appears to
be directly in line with that metaverse’s de facto style. However, there is no inherent need for
a virtual social space to be all­encompassing and integrative of the glut NFT sphere as is what
seems idealistic for the metaverse vogue. Integrating NFT sensibilities and ownership with
community­forming means of independent but capable virtual worlds is perfectly suitable for
most projects 10 . For example, an uniquely styled VR gallery and social playground within a
network of many, akin to the content management and community creation of VRChat could
provide ample longevity; existing virtual worlds could also simply be appropriated for commu­
nity enjoyment and cultivation, proven worlds which have tested against countless hours of
enjoyment, worlds such as Minecraft.

10

This is not to disparage the unique exploratory position platforms and DeFi games such as Decentraland,
Cryptovoxels and The Sandbox hold which will undoubtedly awaken the established industry to a point where
elements of on­chain trustlessness and freedom will become the new standard.

7

2 Background: Minecraft’s Significance
Minecraft is arguably the most important video game ever made, an assertion supported by it
also being the most purchased video game in history. Minecraft is an unique, engaging and
opened up to one’s own imagination kind of videogame which due to its full & fully optional
multiplayer­enabled sandbox experience moulded into an organic, block­structured, fully sha­
peable world can be enjoyed by people of all ages alike.
Ever since being developed by Markus ‘Notch’ Persson well over a decade ago, Minecraft
has stayed on the forefront of gaming popularity and relevance, still receiving intermittent of­
ficial updates and having been released on nigh every modern platform available –but most
importantly, Minecraft has garnered a wide enthusiast community who participates in mod­
ifying and creating additional features & content for the game to suit their interests and de­
sires; every aspect of Minecraft’s gameplay has already been explored to varying degrees for
creative modification: handcrafted builds of buildings, monuments, abstract structures, land­
scapes, towns, cities; any type of 3D build can be accurately represented in Minecraft, the only
limitation being the inherent resolution of its blocks; custom worlds created for varying pur­
poses, e.g. self­contained adventurous stories akin to RPGs 11 , PvP 12 13 14 , parkour games,
hardcore challenges, custom scripted minigames and as aforementioned impressive organic
landscapes to heighten one’s base playing experience; mods and plugins that change and add

11
Again, the sheer metaphysical load that any introspective rumination of the meaning and extent of this
term bears goes far beyond the scope of this document and is only to be carefully explored by the reader under
strict and skilled supervision. Milady owners can contact staff for further guideposts and points of caution, which
are typically – from our experience – only conveyed properly in an interpersonal setting. All reference to this term
within this document is made as a symbol only and does not attempt to evoke anything but the sheer shallowness
of the intuitive thought on the level of an uninitiated reader.
12

Player versus Player; a simple, self­descriptive term for the standard­informed gamer; see also: PvE
(Player versus Environment), WTS (Wanting To Sell), WTB (Wanting To Buy), LFG (Looking For Group; this term
might already be well­known in crypto­related spheres), PST (Please Send Tell), RP (RolePlay), RDM (Random
DeathMatch), gz (ConGratulationZ, also addressed as either gratz or quite mischievously as GZ; most commonly
used after preceding ‘ding’ statement from another player, the latter of which denoting a Level Up.), PK (Player Kill),
DPS (Damage Per Second; often erroneously referred to when describing damage over an arbitrary timeframe; in
more loose use describes a character whose main role is to dish out copious amounts of damage), aggro (Aggression;
chiefly MMO verbiage to denote threat level of a mob, most notably a boss within a raid, of which it is the tank’s job
to keep the highest value and divert it from grandstanding DPSes and healers alike. Aforementioned terminology
that is not addressed within this document is to be taken intuitively.), mana/prana/nano/mhnh (Magical resource
oft referenced in books of fantastical nature.), GM (Game Master; God Mode; Good Morning) ABG (Asian Baby
Girl; derogatory against female gamers of high skill), Bunnyhop/Bhop (Term for a form of movement wherein
one continuously jumps upon hitting the ground to increase overall movement speed and angular control.), TP
(TelePort; see also ‘Frag’13 and ‘TeleFrag’14 ), KS (KillSteal; KillStreak; KillSwitch), CTF (Capture The Flag), L2P
(Learn To Play), P2P (Pay To Play; Peer To Peer), DBF (Death By Fatigue), KMFS (Kiss My Fucking Shotgun),
XP (Experience Points; forgotten emoticon relegated to various web­archives and buried chatlogs, if not for the
occasional anachronistic utterance in line with other primitives such as ‘zomg,’ ‘woot,’ and ‘ftw,’ the passion of
which must not be put into descriptive text as it emancipates vibe from meaning.), DKP (Dragon Kill Points, a social
token kept by manual ledger awarded within MMO guilds to players participating in difficult content or otherwise
assisting the guild, the rate and amount decided by the respective guild leaders, whose use typically consisted of
the ability to claim items dropped within raids over other players via ad­hoc English auction.), CP (Control Points),
DoT (Damage over Time), AoE (Area of Effect), LoS (Line of Sight), MVP (Most Valuable Player), BM (Bad Manners;
Be as it May), AFK (Away From Keyboard), OOM (Out Of Mana), G2H (Go To Hell), MRFU (Message Received,
Fuck You!)
13
A frag – the term itself said to be originating from the act or attempt of intentional killing a fellow soldier,
derived as an abbreviation from fragmentation grenade – is a common way to refer to a kill on or otherwise victory
over another player, resulting in their gruesome demise. ‘Gibbing’ is corollary to fragging, referred to when the act
results into reducing the respective target’s body to giblets, normally via explosion or sheer impact. For Telefrag14 ,
please refer to Note 1414 .
14
Telefragging is a special case of fragging which occurs when the target intercepts with another player at
a teleporter exit, teleporters themselves being commonplace in arena FPS maps. The player who appears last at
the teleporter usually is the one involuntarily (that is, you can’t help it, but man if it doesn’t feel good, eh?) carrying
out the telefrag on the unfortunate soul foolish enough to not vacate the premises of the exit immediately upon
appearing.

8

further depth to the game’s properties to extreme lengths inasmuch that Minecraft could be
considered the metagame, the creative framework in which their contents are enmeshed 15 .
With Minecraft’s large voxel structure wherein all game elements are rendered as cubic
and rectangular blocks, the initial disconnect from its unique visuals is easily accustomed to
and, before long, stimulates the player to anticipate on and enjoy the simple but extensible
format of its world; precisely because of this block structure, all elements within a Minecraft
world can be individually manipulated, offering an unparalleled creative sandbox experience.
When one experiences Minecraft for the first time, even at an out­of­the­executable expe­
rience, they will be filled with the childlike unbound wonder of free exploration and ability to
shape as one sees fit 17 . Minecraft is Crafted as an organic representation of virginal wilds,
a gamut of biomes outstretching themselves interminably, simultaneously at a scale that is
heartily comfortable for anyone to call, to make into home.

2.1 A True Open World
A video game was once seen as a finite fixture, an experience with a concrete beginning, mid­
dle, and end. As bandwidth capabilities improved in society, the gaming industry has shifted
towards making video games a never­ending experience, often utilizing multiplayer and various
addiction mechanics to keep players gaming and spending indefinitely.
To understand Minecraft and how successful it became, one must understand the state of
video games at the time of its release in 2009: the concept of an open world was still considered
a delightful novelty that inspired intense curiosity and addictive play. Video games themselves
were defined by their limitations 18 .
Before open worlds became commonplace and even trite mechanically, the sublime gam­
ing experience was built around pushing the boundaries of worlds when they were still very
apparent. As human beings have an innate spiritual urge to push the boundaries of their phys­
ical reality and discover new mechanics for their own existence, a well­made video game is on
that allows you to explore another world, experience a story, feel a climb of power, satisfy the
sense of accruing wealth, and foster a social presence to other players.
Every child from the 2000s era of video games can recall at least one experience of repet­
itively ‘scratching the walls’ of a video game in search of something unique or unexpected.
Whether this could be a deliberate ‘easter egg’ 19 or an undiscovered glitch, the process of

15
It should be noted that Minecraft’s in­game framework for creating digital systems, redstone, is Turing
complete16 .
16

Which to not at all a pedantic extent means that functionally one can recreate Minecraft within Minecraft
(with potentially infinite layers of recursion, but usually the in­game built RAM runs into hiccups above layer six
or so), a feat that has long since been achieved with varying levels of success and still brings me to tears when I
recall the time, during experimentation of my own, I lost all my diamond items in lava (typical in­game experience
joke) within an infinitely recursive path that is beyond my perception and thus all forms of agency. Whatever I do
next could seriously influence my L3 playthrough ―and I wouldn’t even know.
17

That is, if they have not replaced mankind’s intrinsic will to power with abject complacency, openmind­
edness with acquiescence of drudgery; Minecraft is not a demanding game for its player, but it demands its player
to find enjoyment within their own praxis.
18

A common misconception in the unintuitive mind is to postulate and – to a much larger affront, effect
as a game developer – shape a narrative constrained by technological & time limitations; whereas the limitations
are the narrative ―or they should be, in any case. Gaming narrative is not limited to story or visual experience, it
encapsulates how the game is experienced and in turn how this experience is conveyed when one is not playing.
A spiritually profound videogame is in tune with its limitations and is thus timelessly enjoyable in spite of them.
19

The respective term, ‘easter egg,’ was first coined in Warren Robinett’s ‘Adventure’ for the Atari 2600,
wherein a couple of mischievous secrets inside the game’s world highlighted specific bugs in the code. These
bugs were tied to features of the game and could not be amended, due to the way the Atari was designed. It is
well­known that Robinett had difficulties dealing with Atari management. Just like an Easter egg hunt wherein the
eggs are well­hidden, they soon turn rotten when not discovered within time; this was allegorized by Robinett’s
actions.

9

playing a game to discover exploits and secrets was a natural and expected part of the experi­
ence.
This mimicks the prop nature of games children play in real life– it’s an expected saccha­
rine lesson that children do not need toys to have fun, they merely need props to use their
imagination, however, the more sophisticated the prop, the more fun an imaginative and cre­
ative child has the potential to have. Minecraft, in our opinion, can be seen as the greatest prop
for imagination ever created because its nature allows for a truly infinite ways of play beyond
trivial technicalities.
This experimental curiosity is what pushed ships across oceans, fueled the tinkering of
countless inventors, and expanded nearly every facet of our 20 culture into abstract new think­
ing. This energy too is poured into video games, which themselves are cleverly designed to
target the preoccupations which reward us with sensations of accomplishment.
In these respects, of meaningful, unique experiences, Minecraft was the first truly open
world game.

2.2 Infinity
Infinity is at the heart of the Minecraft experience. The game is nigh infinitely large 21 and
nearly every element of it is modifiable.
The state of video games during the release of Minecraft held no comparison to such pos­
sibilities. Open world video games had existed before Minecraft, such as Grand Theft Auto,
various RPGs 22 , as well as games mentioned in the preamble, both single and multiplayer.
However, their playable area or ’maps‘ were fundamentally constrained in size, with much
of their content being functionless aesthetic setpieces or walled­off backdrops. Not only was
Minecraft’s map infinite 23 , but the potential for altering the environment was nearly total.
This process of environmental modification was a huge factor in Minecraft’s popularity.
The act of modification itself is the core of humanity’s two directions of curiosity: Outward
and Inward. Outward curiosity is what propels expansion and exploration, inward curiosity is
what propels invention and observation.
Before Minecraft, arguably one of the best games for satisfying inward curiosity was Garry’s
Mod. Garry’s Mod, or ‘gmod’, was a sandbox created for the Source game engine, utilizing
the assets of several Valve games. Gmod represented infinite possibilities for mechanical cre­
ation in video games because it provided a vast array of tools for manipulating in­game assets
and physics. The wide array of abilities in gmod included being able to spawn nearly every
NPC 24 and physical structure available in any of its integrated, multiple games and to modify

20

Not to relinquish the prevalence of high culture and passed­on eternal truths and discoveries of credit,
but Minecraft is obviously Western in nature. This document was written and edited by authors born and inundated
as citizens of the Western world, mondially expressed into the information age. Please bear with us as we fall victim
to our irrevocably constrained worldview.
21

The concept of infinity, an ur­question poised in the heart of waking humanity and widely expressed in
theology, philosophy and both the high and low sciences, with particular attention to mathematics, is as theoretical
as it is transcendent; it would be arrogant, or, given our good nature, foolish to postulate infinity as the informa­
tion veritably enclosed within Minecraft. It is, however, its root sentiment and fundamental to the encompassing
experience. The roads left untraveled in Minecraft are most likely to outlive us all.
22

See Note 11. No, really. Please.

23

As mentioned before, technically finite, but each individual Minecraft map is of a size no human being
can exhaust within a single lifetime, rendering it downright foolish to engage in such debate. I have to ask, to those
privy to such tedium, barring of course Sublime Trolls, do you think anyone has time for you? Right now I am very
busy studying fractals, you see, and offhandedly perusing a bit of the ol’ Kantian rhetoric in the midst of it. Super
busy, super educated; erudite; profound; cognizant, cool & close to losing it.
24

Non­Player Character, or a being who has been trapped inside the game’s fine­meshed programming
and mechanistic structures, unable to claw through the interleaved tangle, semiotic webs that constrain them to
solely preset behaviour at the approach of an Outside Entity, more commonly known as ‘The Player,’ hence the
nomenclature.

10

these assets with every possible application of the Source physics engine, an example of such
displayed in Fig. 5.

Figure 5: Although simple in nature, this image veritably encapsulates the es­
sential gmod experience: native Source engine game assets, in this case those
from Counter­Strike: Source, portrayed in the desert oasis scene; custom im­
ported or ripped assets, often frivolous given the game’s tendency to lawless
arena of creation and manipulation, shown here as human­sized bags of Dori­
tos corn chips; and finally gmod tooling, expanding a player’s options to the
limits of the Source engine, symbolically bridging the two aforementioned to­
gether as a physics­enabled rope, hanging the corpus Doritos from the radio
tower in the scene pictured.
Whilst there have been other games allowing liberal creative use of their assets, such as
the Halo series’ Forge map creation, it is generally agreed that gmod allowed players to create
more sophisticated and expansive creations than any other game at the time 25 . Its appeal
to a young playful mind was similar to the widely beloved Lego, which stimulates the inward
curiosity by allowing children to create nearly anything due to their universal interlocking
mechanism.

2.3 Accessible Specifications
For several years before the alpha release of Minecraft, I had personally been gaming vicari­
ously through Youtube videos of custom gmod creation videos and walkthroughs 26 of video
games my family’s living room computer (a 2004 Sony VAIO VGC­V3M all­in­one media PC27
25

Note that we deliberately refer to games whose avenues and agency of creation fall within the capability of
the game itself. If you want to be pedantic and fail to recognize our intention of this paragraph, perhaps deliberately
so, you could argue that tools to widely modify games have been around since the age of Doom WADs. It does not
matter. We specifically target the boundless joy of nigh infinite modes of play included into gameplay as­is. If you
wish to add how an obscure or otherwise underrated historical game did this better, actually, feel free to invalidate
our entire sentiment with a call to our technical support line at “1­800­REMCORP”.
26

Recordings of a game’s gameplay which typically tended to full completion and would be excruciatingly
uploaded in bite­sized, ten­minute pieces at a time due to Youtube’s video duration limits ―truly a product of its
time. These days, a walkthrough often is appended with either the prefix ‘full,’ or modulated into what’s known
as a ‘longplay,’ both of which slap a game’s near full duration into a single video file. Special attention should be
paid to written walkthroughs, which, although these days highly uncommon, serve as a full user’s guide to target
confounding parts a player might get stuck at during gameplay of their own.
27

If I may interject... I myself have been reaping the fruits of Minecraft’s splendor for many years, having
made first contact with the game on my father’s old G4 Powerbook, through a cracked28 OSX client, which I cannot

11

28 29 ) could not run (the act of watching walkthroughs of video games for entertainment was a

precursor to the Let’s Play 30 Youtube Gamer trend that exploded during the 2010s). Minecraft
was extremely appealing because it allowed for true freedom of gameplay ―and it could be run
on poor hardware.
Minecraft was already accessible at launch, but as Moore’s law, describing an exponential
development into computer hardware processing power 31 , has marched on for more than a
decade since, low minimum hardware requirements has found its range increase: Mineraft
is now essentially ‘ported to everything’, from smart toasters to standard issue TI­89 graphic
calculators, it’s a technical challenge attempted on any turing complete device. Minecraft is
today a universal game.

remember having downloaded, nor any notion of me learning of Minecraft’s existence. The game ran sluggishly on
the laptop’s hardware, requiring me to set my vision range to an offensively tiny circle, causing everything in a ten
block radius around me to be inundated with a thick fog. When I set foot into the newly generated world, my world,
I punched a tree, got wood and crafted some tools that would allow me to dug a hole in the cliffside wall closest to
my location29 . In that hole, I would stay for multiple months: the outside world – of Minecraft – with its vast open
spaces I found impossibly difficult to tread, limited by my range of view, I feared my bearings would be lost upon
setting any further than 100 blocks out into the unknown, and so I placed beacons of light around my abode and
crafted a rudimentary minecart rail system to propel me back to safety after having stepped 100 blocks or so away
from home. Within the hole I carved out of the wall, however, I had begun my empire: I dug out numerous tunnels
in my expeditions to the bottom; automated harvesting of various natural resources which had I gathered during
my doubtful trips outside inside subterranean lablike condominiums; tamed an army of wolves to sit at the front of
my, in my childish mind, now veritable mansion inside the hollowed­out cliffside, the opposite end of which was
lined with glass, forming a panorama against its natural edges; set up an array of traps outside and, to an even more
devious extent, inside of my empire, which I had thought up to only be manoeuvrable by myself. The truth was that
with how I had locked myself up in­game in prolonged symptomatic behaviour which by no means is allegorical,
there were simply no threats for my virtual livelihood to go around, monsters would steer clear of my dwellings,
needlessly locked down as they were, and there were no other players for me to interact with. After I felt like I had
succeeded in my set goals, I stopped playing Minecraft ―and I would not touch it again until I rediscovered it a few
years later (on slightly better hardware) in a fully renewed experience, playing both cooperatively and adversarially
in a Minecraft multiplayer experience with my friends.
28
Every word and adherent thoughts pertaining to this paragraph are only to be read from a strictly anecdo­
tal view; any reference within this paragraph made to illegitimate acquirement, distribution or otherwise illegitimate
use cannot be verified and should under no circumstance be attempted by the reader.
29

The folder in which the cracked28 executable was located had a quaint custom icon shaped like a 2­and­
a­half D render of a creeper’s (the most vile, awful, horrible, terrifying, sickening, disdainful, insulting, lugubrious
creature one might find in the otherwise unblemished world of Minecraft) countenance and furthermore contained
a terse readme, instructing how one could appropriate skins from a certain player by entering their existing user­
name in the login field28 , a link pointing to the Minecraft wiki as well as handing out some tips to get started,
which included the very keen insight that one needs to punch trees to get started; advice I would still personally
recommend to Minecraft players to this day.
30

A gross perversion of the video walkthrough format: gameplay superimposed with middling personalities
who – sometimes even as begrudgingly intrepid to thrust their warped likeness into a webcam lens whose output
would be tucked away into the corner – vocally hemmed and hawed in full exclamation to the sights as they laid
themselves out by means of equally middling gaming acumen, their screams and yelps of excitement and distraught
spiritually akin to the laugh track, dogwhistling the viewer into submission through forced amusement signaling.
31

Moore, Gordon E. (April 19, 1965) “Cramming more components onto integrated circuits”. Electronics
Magazine, Volume 38, Number 8.

12

3 Why Web3 Minecraft Community, Why Now?
It is the general consensus of the Remilia Collective and the Milady Community that Virtual
Reality is the future of social networks, business, politics, and culture. It represents the fusion
of mediums which dominated the zeitgeist during the infancy of the internet.
As society transitions towards Virtual Reality, we will experience a competition of several
large platforms and engines, each attempting to integrate blockchain technology towards com­
modification of ideas, conceptual property, and digital information. However, at the time of
writing, no single VR engine or platform exists with the collective familiarity, ubiquity and free­
dom of Minecraft. As funny as it sounds, we recognize Minecraft as the first platform for a
Virtual Reality­integrated lifestyle.

3.1 Coming VReality
As computers and technology improves, along with the society­wide psychological implica­
tions of digital life, it is increasingly apparent that future generations will tend towards digital
representation. In the wake of the 2K20 pandemic, we’ve already seen the increase in remote
work and with this trend, online video meetings. However, the video call is but a poor form
of communication within the digital world. Webcam feeds are intrusive, uncomfortable and
unbecoming; frankly, nobody enjoys video call meetings 32 .
The videocall experience, with its undignified displays of the human face33 in a Lynchian
grid of workers politely held hostage by the key speaker, has thoroughly been lambasted in
popular culture as society transitions to digital communication 34 .
No, the ideal form of digital communication is fully integrated Virtual Reality.
Firstly, it allows the user to remain comfortable in their home environment without the need
to physically posture their appearance or surroundings; this comfort is decidedly violated by
the intrusive nature of cameras.
Secondly, VR allows for a smoother and more intuitive experience of communication by
placing the viewer into an avatar, which allows for movement, gesticulation, and proper local­
ized perspective.
Thirdly, both the avatar and the environment are modifiable in ways beyond physical pos­
sibility in the real world. This can create useful tools for communication which humanity has
never experienced before.
Fourthly, the psychological and spiritual implications of filtering oneself through the sym­
bolism of a three dimensional interactive avatar is something that nearly every member of the
digitally competent population has experienced through playing video games, or any form of
related media. Even those who do not play video games and have had no history doing so can­
not escape the concept of digital representation since they have experience with social media
35 .
32

Would it not be ironic if it were not the sequestering to one’s home comforts and resulting reevaluation
of office­space drudgery is what would foster disillusion and refusal to further participate in conformist society, but
that the constantly pressing discomfort from interconnected solitude in such a condition would make that leap and
redefine the will to wageslavery?
33
One may be charitable to describe as ‘bulbous and grotesque’, but more ugly is the lack of public edu­
cation that this is not a mirror on thyself, but an artifact of lens distortion from cameras with smaller focal length
than the human eye. How much self­confidence of our budding youth have been wrecked so far by these distorted
self­presentations? And what of the irony that ideologues will pou­pou virtual avatars as psychologically danger­
ous for that same reason, when distinct compartmentalization over subtle modification must surely ensure the id’s
ignorance?
34
Commodification and capitalization of humor itself has found its way into popular culture, which is de­
cided by the market makers; the market makers decide on the boundaries of said ‘culture’ and plan out the modes
of your consumption; your interests are media consumption. Feigned outrage combined with ironic if not sarcastic
quips that tickle your disbelief are a telling sign ―and they keep playing their hand more conspicuously as time
goes on.
35

If you’ve experienced neither, then it is both confusing and impressive that you’ve read this far into a

13

Fifth and finally, a VR communication space is simply more fun to interface with. The act
of having fun is the most human and noble trait we can have. It lightens the spirit and allows
for the flow of creativity to introduce new possibilities in the mind. Even something as simple
as jumping around 36 in a VRchat­rendered meeting space while someone is talking provides
a simple visual acuity movement that stimulates the imagination, allowing for new ideas to be
conceived and shared. This is because of movement.
3.1.1 Movement and virtual interfacing
Movement is the key ingredient for enlightened rhetorical exchange. Sedentary behavior is
the death of good ideas, it is why classrooms strangle the minds of the youth into unrest and
boredom. It was said that Aristotle tutored Alexander the Great by lecturing him during long
walks; anyone with conversationally competent friends can attest to the invigorating comfort
of a nice walk and talk.
Digitally created worlds allow for this possibility to be realized in, indeed, a fully digital
environment. It is not enough to suggest movement in real life while using traditional video
chatting ―that is both crude and disjointed. The key element of digital communication is
recognizing that you are entering another world when you use a screen.
This hypnotic trance is the conscious shift between real life and the digital world. It is why
children scream when their parents disconnect them from their games abruptly37 . An older
generation may see this as disturbing and grotesque, encouraging the younger generation to
apply the same disdain and disregard towards the digital world that they have. This response
is naive, a disconnection from a world which the current younger generation must deal with.
To disregard the digital world is to ostracize oneself from society entirely, limit any possibility
for natural work, and ignore the mechanisms which affect their physical life.
The ugly frightening elements of digital existence are a symptom of poorly considered me­
chanics. The people who created the computer and the cell phone were pursuing the furthest
reaches of technical possibility without consideration for the effect their creations would have
on spirit, health, and psychology 38 . These are elements we must iron out as we progress
further into the world.

3.2 Minecraft is Virtual Golf
Throughout the 20th century, golf was considered to be the quintessential game played by the
businessman and the politician. The game of golf allows for amateurs to enjoy it, while there
is a high skill curve for the competitive and the professional to master it as desired.
Minecraft whitepaper to begin with.
36

From a first­person perspective, nothing is as troubling as a lack of jumping! Virtual environments sprawl
around your field of view, your body is being held down by forces that dictate your traversal. The degree of freedom
corresponding to vertical translation has always been the silliest of movements from this perspective; it used to not
even exist, in many games it serves no purpose. Yet, it is absolutely necessary. When everything else completely
fails, when there is no expression, no communication, nothing to do and nowhere to be, one can always smirk
gleefully over the irrevocable power one’s spacebar holds. When they diminish your jump or raise the surfaces,
they fear you. When they prevent you from jumping at all, they insult you to a degree that should not go unpunished.
Find them.
37

An interesting, tangential phenomenon is the question of the ’absence of the memory card,‘ oft encoun­
tered in childhood trauma of the millennial and elder zoomer generation. This phenomenon entails a troubling
digital ego death which occurs when the video game console one is interfacing, internalizing a digital persona with,
is shut down and the persona is lost due to absence of data storage. This establishes a vicious cycle in which the
player is tormented by having to reestablish the connection each time they play, with the only fleeting recourse
being leaving the console running when one stops playing. This detail could prove to be particularly poignant
concerning the preeminence of PoW crypto structures throughout the 2010s.
38
Consider that technology cannot ever be considered ‘good’: for every piece of teleology and construct
entering the waking human’s worldview and life, it interminably reveals conundrums, obstructions, contingencies
and eventually, discrepancies and faults which previously had not revealed themselves within the practice ―and
without the practice, had not existed whatsoever. Without a doubt, technology is a social construct, but it is also an
unstoppable force which will drive humanity toward its undoing, maybe.

14

The wealthy enjoy golf because it allows them to occupy their time, something which be­
comes a real problem if you have run out of other things to do with your day. The business­
oriented enjoy golf because it allows for lengthy periods of conversation in an environment
that is both quiet and private.
The act of occupying oneself with a simple thoughtless task allows for the very same stim­
ulation of thought that movement creates. Humanity has always had props for conversations,
mechanisms for exhausting nervous energy into. This process distracts the conscious mind
and puts us in a trance. This trancelike state allows for the proliferation of new ideas in ways
that directly focused conversation cannot compare to. Minecraft represents the closest ana­
logue to golfing and its relationship to business but through the digital world. Witness the first
Minecraft Real­Life Meetup, dubbed ‘Minecon 2010,’ in Fig. 6 and think again.

Figure 6: Top: Minecon 2010 as it was carried out within Minecraft. Bottom:
an analogue of the same event, clad in the trappings of ordinary meatspace.
The overhead textual tagging in Minecraft juxtaposed with the posture of
the live­meet constituents; standing stolidly, they’re idly waiting to Craft so
that the true conversation may begin. Both images retrieved from https:
//minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/MINECON_2010
In fact, Minecraft has stimulated some of the greatest conversations in recent times known
to man 39 . The low resolution bitmap typeface of Minecraft’s default chat function lends itself
to lengthy pontification and the comforting repetitive activities of mining and building in its
world allow for meditative, trancelike unconscious thought. The game acts as the modern
digital businessman’s golf.
The forefront of industry and entrepreneurialism exists in the crypto sphere. Due to the
increasingly exponential development of tech, now every generation has its own opportunity
to become wealthy ―and the current generation’s opportunity exists in crypto technology.
This environment is not conducive to playing golf, it is entirely digital, remote, and fast paced.
See also Fig. 7 for an alternative, outsider perspective. Think about it.
A curious trend has occurred with a generation of essentially nerds, gamers and forum
lurkers, becoming extremely wealthy and defining business for future generations. They are
rediscovering the mechanisms which their predecessors created out of necessity.

39

And you probably would not have even realized if you were there, due to the offhanded flow of the
chatbox, much like the walk­talk.

15

The cryptocurrency mimics the rediscovery of economical mechanics forgotten by the gen­
eral public; the NFT rediscovers the art collector and the critic along with the artist; the DAO
rediscovers the corporation; so too will a fully integrated VR blockchain platform go on to
mimic nearly every portion of traditional social­business existence.
Minecraft and its use in a business has the potential to mimic the necessity of golf. It
represents the best activity for enterprising young minds to unwind, interact, network, and
collaborate in.
The Milady Server sees a future where nearly every project community develops their own
Minecraft servers to foster their community within.
Minecraft will receive a renaissance of older players, both fulfilling a sense of nostalgia and
creating a culture built around mixing their business with pleasure.
This principle is why Milady has sought to create a Minecraft server for her community. We
all feel the underlying important meanings behind even the most innocuous activities. As the
businessman plays golf, so too will the investor play Minecraft.

Figure 7: Another element of golf’s popularity among the enterprising is its
relative ease of play, something which is critical for those approaching elderly
age. This precipitates Minecraft’s popularity with time. Do you see retirement
homes more likely to be having Unreal Tournament LAN parties? Or would
they be playing a game that’s easier on their slower reaction time?

3.3 Minecraft­Discord­Urbit Daisychain
Minecraft represents a perfect platform for the virtual lifestyle because nearly everyone rele­
vant to such a future is familiar with playing Minecraft, the game already allows for freedom of
movement, a wide array of available mechanics and nearly infinite potential for environmental
creation, is universally lenient on computer hardware, with a cheap one­time cost 40 , and a
simple interface which allows for hundreds of people in a single online server if need be.
However, such a thing also lies at the perfect intersection of business and leisure: Minecraft
and Discord are intertwined with each other and crypto culture as a whole. Generally speak­
ing, nearly everyone who has enough competence and understanding to invest into blockchain
technology on the levels of altcoins and NFT’s during the time of writing has a degree of expe­
rience with internet culture and most likely has used both Discord and Minecraft in the past.
40

Yeah, we get it, you can play it for free too. And you’re not actually paying for it, or anything, because
software licenses are extortion of a information that is already free. But did you also know digital credentials sold
at a cost basis are the perfect solution to sybil resistance from bad actors attempting to corrupt precious online
communities? Maybe you should catch up on the Urbit white paper before you read this Minecraft follow­up.

16

41 This makes it a logically sound decision to integrate Minecraft into the Milady Community

due to the familiarity and ease of access.
The current state of affairs for the internet as a whole is the degradation of what can only
be described as ‘liveliness.’ This liveliness is a sensation that can only be described in vague
feelings. As algorithms begin to automate nearly every process of creation and curation, there
is a visible lack of soul in the results garnered from the unfeeling programs which would attempt
to predict every bit of content you’d ever wish to consume. Even terminology such as ‘content’
and ‘consumption’ would denigrate the sacred nature of a created work. This current feeling of
soullessness has been described thoroughly as the Dead Internet Theory. A problem of feeling
cannot be solved through algorithmic methodical solutions. It must be dealt with by applying
emotional intuition towards the functions and experiences we take for granted online. In the
opinions of everyone at the Remilia Collective, the best way to solve such an issue is through
Fun.
Fun is the catalyst for spirit. It enhances the mindless zen state which refreshes the stal­
eness that sets in through rote function. Minecraft’s nature as a game implies inherent Fun
through its use. By integrating Fun throughout the entire company, we can create an arterial
flow of tangible emotional energy between different platforms.
At the time of writing, one of the most promising projects for changing the cultural land­
scape of communication is Urbit. Urbit is exploring the cutting edge of what could one day
be defined as Web 3.0. A new foundation for networks and social media, built on a platform
integrated with blockchain technology.
The decentralized nature of blockchain during the time of this writing has relegated various
projects to be separate entities. This is not disheartening when you consider that the internet
itself is merely a series of separate technological projects being chained together by interested
motivated individuals who wish to cooperate. It’s in the name: Interconnected Network.
We can build our own new internet using crude methods to be polished with time. For
example, the Milady Discord can use bots to communicate to the Minecraft chat and the Urbit
galaxy we currently own. We can daisy chain all three platforms together using said bots. Over
time as the technology and programming improves, this process can be made seamlessly as if
it were all one cohesive chat. While this is merely a cute idea for now, it serves as an example
for how we can achieve a decentralized network, economy, and society while maintaining the
convenience and simplicity that centralization offers.

41
If you find yourself at an impasse, still ignorant of what Minecraft entails, yet through a staunch obses­
sion of linear reading and abhorrence of interfering with the internalization process (i.e. a cursory web search in
between) you have not yet wizened up to the concept, You Are In Luck: by reading this message, you have won
a FREE! Milady World introductory tour. For redemption, target any Milady Community representative with the
query “I cannot find the minceraft files.” Repeat unto success.

17

4 Map Design
The first island of Milady World has been designed to provide players with an initial but ver­
satile Minecraft experience, focusing on solidarity and lighthearted building & exploring fun
which should suit any member of the Milady Community on a base level. In game, it is referred
to as ‘Isle of Milady’ which adorably sounds like “I love Milady” when said out loud.
This section will namely deal with how our creative vision and ideology outlined in the
previous sections is embodied within an actual virtual landscape of a Minecraft environment,
recapitulating where convenient. Explication into tools and further design ideas is given, to
both provide a historical account of our vision at the time of writing as well as inspire readers
who seek interpretation where none may be apparent within Minecraft ―you could even say
that if you have thoroughly perused this document, you don’t even need to explore Milady
World at all! 42

Figure 8: Quick ideation sketches of the Isle of Milady, outlining a heart shape
and various landmarks.
The idea for separating the Milady World experience into uniquely designed landmasses
came quite naturally due to our shared experiences with survival island­type custom maps.
These maps regale the players with a set of objectives and deftly puzzled­together environ­
ments, set customarily on an island, as the endless expanse of the open ocean is the most
convenient and natural way of telling a player that venturing out is pointless.
The sort of ‘tutorial zone,’ homebase area and generally amicable atmosphere we initially
wanted to give to Milady World was envisioned into this sort of island, to give the community
enough room to build and explore without ever needing to venture into further, assuredly
more dangerous zones; as mentioned in an earlier section of this document, specific building
materials and various riches are still locked and will not be available naturally on the Isle of
Milady, requiring those that seek them to visit these challenging future zones, or trade with
those that have done so.
We additionally drew inspiration for the Isle of Milady from similarly secluded safe­zones
as they’re found in e.g. World of Warcraft’s Teldrassil & Azuremyst Isle and Guild Wars’ Istan;
hence why, in the true spirit of simple beauty Milady exudes, we decided upon a heart­shaped
island, which can also be seen in the sketch in Fig. 8, outlining ideas for inlets, mountainous
ranges and most importantly, an archipelago which is located at the bottom shore of the island
and where the server spawnpoint resides.
The archipelago is our main environmental impulse for creating a tight­knit ingame com­
42

This would be an irrationally unwise decision. Please disregard the sudden tonal shift from the introduc­
tory paragraph lapsing from stolid description to mendacious nonchalance and visit our Minecraft server, Milady
World. We apologize for any inconvenience.

18

munity joined by location: not only is it convenient to have built a home close to spawn, which
also happens to be the only location one can readily teleport to 43 , the unique geography of
quaint little islands connecting into waterways which span the island’s area is attractive to
most Minecraft players’ sensibilities ―or so we hope!
One could argue that Minecraft has a degree of environmental realism up to fantastical in­
terpretation and given the mysterious allure of floating chunks of ““‘naturally generated””’
scores of mountainous heights, the impossible geometry of some, typically cobblestone obelisks
placed by personified forces unknown and the mystical exodus of practically unreachable lands
which, besides being able to be credibly accredited to many a generative artist roaming within
cryptoworld, once were known as The Far Lands, it is not entirely an unsupported view.
However, in spite of these common attributes, the initial landmass design for the Isle of
Milady was edited in a sophisticated terrain generator called World Creator 44 , in an effort to
create a realistic outline.

4.1 World Creator & Worldpainter

Figure 9: World Creator render of the preliminary Isle of Milady design
In Fig. 9, which features the design for the Isle of Milady in World Creator, it can be seen
how most of the island’s environment is of roughly uniform height, akin to plains and small
hills we wish to populate most of its area with, whereas the northern parts, respectively the
atria of the heart we allegorize it as, feature mountainous and large plateaus.
As such, we wished to effect how even within the Isle of Milady, the areas where players em­
bark on and have to pass through are more peaceful and less rugged than the reaches opposite
to it. As for the island’s size, we estimated that for our playerbase, a 4000 by 4000 rectangular
area would suffice. This size was also taken for the render resolution, 4096. Additionally, the
water level in the render is not fully representative for the final design but merely to elucidate
on the rough shape which the island was going to assume. The archipelago is not featured in
the World Creator render either, due to the difficulty and redundancy of representing islands
of such a tiny scale within this program.
43
Milady World is solely for Vanilla Groovers. We play it Hard, cheap thrills of creepers exploding around
you, no frills of plugins (they are there but we do not talk about them) intricating What You Call A Blocky Life for
you, many kills of players that can’t resist bodying you for all your stuffz (no PvP yet but expect curse of vanishing
by default) yeah that’s right it’s enough. Digital miner?? Whiner whiner loser silly sod by ye notch how would they
install a mod they don’t know file systems i s2g.
44

https://www.world-creator.com/, BiteTheBytes GmbH

19

Figure 10: Initial Isle of Milady design, edited in Worldpainter
The render was exported as a heightmap into Worldpainter 45 , a powerful custom world cre­
ator and editor for Minecraft. Without regard for biomes, rivers and foliage, the island its shape
was refined within this program. The design is featured in Fig 10, featuring the archipelago,
which is added to the southeastern shoreline. We experimented with Worldpainter to see how
immersive these large, outstretched environments would appear within Minecraft, considering
Minecraft default terrain generation intermingles itself as an eclectic patchwork of biomes of
various heights.
It became rapidly obvious that even though imposing, mountainous heights are of an awe­
inspiring scale unlike aforementioned normalcy in Minecraft –without careful orchestration
and painstaking modification, it is also terribly boring. Fig. 11 delineates this well enough:
note the wide­spanning, toiling climbs on either edge of the image that are simply too vast to
not invoke monotony.
Before further experimentation into environmental heights and diversity, we observed World­
painter’s generative capability with respect to biomes, which unfortunately have become dated–
especially in light of Minecraft terrain generation updates added in the past two years or so–and
would require additional manual refinement to be representative of a fully­fledged Minecraft
experience: ever since Minecraft version 1.12, chunks can no longer be overwritten before
they are fully generated, meaning that it is impossible to have Worldpainter invoke standard
Minecraft terrain generation algorithms and simultaneously shape the terrain as addressed in
the editor, which is notably irksome for underground layers, caves and structures.
The underground must either be prefigured manually, or sorted out by Worldpainter’s own
algorithms, which are less than satisfactory. Whilst performing a beautiful, laborious manual
job is highly commendable, it simply does not fall in line with our design ethos of generative
artistry, not merely within Milady but as a formative trend within the capabilities of the crypto­
sphere as a whole. It goes without question that we extend this ethos to Minecraft, treating it
45

https://www.worldpainter.net/, Pepsoft

20

Figure 11: Scale of epic proportions as created in Worldpainter with facility
as an emergent virtual world contiguous with all our other efforts; Worldpainter is not enough.

4.2 Terra
Terra 46 , a custom world generator, capable of functioning through server plugins, was thus
chosen to generate the Isle of Milady.
After due experimentation, we are convinced of its extensible framework and highly versa­
tile capabilities and we intend to make use of it for future Milady World island releases as well.
Within Terra, one can design their own biomes to be fed into the generator, based on noise for­
mulae and weighted scaling; it additionally features a plethora of pre­existing biomes, serving
to overwrite the range of Minecraft’s default terrain generation, together with a sophisticated
underground; the latter of which being crucial to generation which we previously lacked with
Worldpainter.
It is possible to have Terra colour match the pixels of an externally supplied image to the
closest respective biomes in its array and generate the world to this image its likeness: gener­
ating the Isle of Milady off an image this way, by borrowing the shape created in Worldpainter,
served as an excellent hack to not let the design go to waste. We were thus able to algorith­
mically generate the Isle of Milady whilst also setting strict environmental boundaries, cutting
down heavily on the manual work required and immediately creating environments very sim­
ilar to the nuances of default Minecraft generation.
With Terra set in place and slight modifications made to generation parameters, world cre­
ation progressed iteratively, which can be seen in Fig. 12.
As one might remark, these designs look awfully simplified, which is due to the colours
therein directly representing biomes for Terra to generate without a visualization of elevation.
Note that whilst the colours were chosen to be intuitive in perusal for both the map editor and
reader, they are set arbitrarily and their hue does not necessarily correspond to a the texture
pack tied to a Minecraft biome
A by­effect of having generation be processed algorithmically is that we can no longer ex­
actly dictate the layout and height of a specific patch of terrain, unless we create stringent cus­
tom biome formulae and manually perform further edits, of course; which we did not, of course,
in the spirit of generative code art. For future, gauntlet challenge­type islands and other mys­
tical phenomena, we will intermingle this generated versatility with hardcore curated content,
featuring custom structures, monsters and items.

46

https://github.com/PolyhedralDev/Terra

21

(a) Initial Terra map design, toying with biome se­ (b) Modified Terra design, clearing out odd biomes
lection.
& providing general uniformity.

(c) Further modification; added various waterways.

(d) Final iteration; more versatility in plains.

Figure 12: Isle of Milady iterations represented as image file read by Terra for
generation, listed in order of progression.

22

4.3 Isle of Milady: Ingame

Figure 13: A complete ingame view of the Isle of Milady, rendered with
Xaero’s World Map.
A representation of the Isle of Milady as it appears ingame can be seen in Fig. 13, featuring
a top­down view rendered with the client­side plugin Xaero’s World Map 47 .
The Isle of Milady is comprised primarily of plains and simple forests, with snowy taiga,
cliffs and mountain­strewn regions to the north. It is connected throughout its landmass by a
plethora of waterways and is a peaceful 48 retreat where everyone in the Milady Community
can reside and come back to, nudging slightly towards the archipelago on the southeastern
shore.
Extending from the south­eastern shore, a small patch of swamp stretches out up to the
north­eastern part of the island, which is dotted by cliffs that guard either side of the twisting
bay in between. Further cardinally north are two lobes of rocky and sparsely populated hills,
enmeshed within a chaotic river delta. Their cores feature mountains which surround snowy
taiga. The west lobe’s river delta forms into a large single river descending into the south part
of the island, which undulates heavily before reaching the sea, surrounded by floodplains and
small oxbow lakes at this part.
This main river is connected with small waterways which follow throughout most of the east.
The majority of this area is covered by plains, hillside plains, tiny patches of rocky hills, varied
parts of oak forest, and a single large birch forest which is connected to the south­eastern shore.
The island further features two deep lakes, a sea trench on the southern edge and a curiously
shaped island between the two northern mountainous lobes. Whilst this description does not
47

https://chocolateminecraft.com/worldmap.php

48

Not referring to the respective Minecraft difficulty level; that is set to Hard.

23

cover the full extent of the island’s environmental details, we would like to leave the additional
nuances to be up to the reader’s avid sense of exploration. 49

~
Besides environmental ones, a plethora of gameplay changes have been applied in an effort
to further enhance the authentic Minecraft experience without diverging from it too strongly.
We are convinced that these changes will help to alleviate annoyances and inconsistencies in
gameplay and to mitigate bad faith behaviour which is unavoidable in a multiplayer experience.
The changes are listed below, in no particular order and subject to change in the future:
• Making use of the plugin GriefPrevention, players are able to claim their own plot of land
50 , which grants them block protection from other players and locked chests, so long
as they are placed within the boundaries of the plot. Players can still open doors and
activate buttons and levers within another’s claim as to not impede on exploration. With
this feature, we wish to reassure players that they can build as they like without fear of
theft and/or destruction, within their own personally selected domain.
• All block destruction from explosions, whatever their source, has been disabled; with even
a handful of players, over the course of a few weeks the natural landscape can become
tattered with creeper blast holes which do little other than deface incidental beauty51 .
• Players can open iron doors and trapdoors by hand. If one prefers, they can still make
use of a controlled redstone signal; this measure was specifically taken to be synergistic
with our views on exploration e.g. within another player’s claim.
• The spawn area–and perhaps various other sanctuary zones in the future–renders players
invincible to mobs, nor do they spawn in it. Furthermore, players regenerate health within
and do not have their hunger drained. If one wishes to lounge around without having to
worry about Minecraft’s survival fundamentals, the spawn area is both an aesthetically
as practically viable and enjoyable location.
• All portal creation to the Nether and End is disabled, nor will it ever be enabled. Access to
these dimensions will be included as the culmination of challenging dungeonlike islands
in the future.
• There is no PvP enabled on the Isle of Milady at the time of writing. It might be enabled
in some parts of it in the future – and assuredly on island additions – but concordant with
our vision, the Isle of Milady is decidedly peaceful for players amongst each other.
• The Isle of Milady does not generate with villages, strongholds and outposts; we decided
that the best way to implement these Minecraft features is through manual curation. Not
only would the inclusion of strongholds create confusion and frustration amongst players
when they discover that the End is not accessible, base implementation of villagers and
49

You didn’t think that we would spoil the full gamut, would you? You didn’t think that by gleaning the
whitepaper you would gain a competitive edge over the multitude of other faithful Milady Community members
eagerly competing for the top spot, whatever it might be ―would you? You want to know something, turbo? The
images you’ve seen, they’re not even the real map. It was generated on a local test server, it’s not the same. We
know all too well how you crave to create a drowning trap at [3502, 4211] for its favourable position adjacent to
sea which you inferred from downloading the pic and peering at the pixels closely. It might not even be there for
all YOU know. It’s not there. We know; we are not the same. Sorry!
50
While the authors technically prefer the ‘locked chest’ as a more organic and open­ended solution for
granting a sense of owned space to the player, land plot claims felt in the spirit of NFT space by both being func­
tionally (1) NFT­authenticated virtual land, and (2) decentralized, required no artificial mod intervention to reverse
any potential property griefing.
51

Milady is about beauty, you know. However, this does not mean that TNT in its entirety cannot be placed
or detonated. Oh yes.

24

villagers can contribute to a degenerative dynamic in Minecraft progression, especially
in a multiplayer environment. To prevent unfair dichotomies between players, we will
provide villages ourselves accordingly.
• Players do not suffer from insomnia and thus phantoms will not spawn to beleaguer them
this way. We feel like phantoms are an unnecessary addition to Minecraft in their current
state as they are a nuisance and aesthetically incongruent with the general atmosphere of
the overworld. An alternative source of phantoms will be added as part of future content.
• In Milady World, enchanted items can be repaired at an anvil without having their en­
chantments foregone. Whilst the mending enchantment is an excellent source of equip­
ment longevity, we feel that it is too much of a burden on players wishing to create
endgame level gear they spend hours working for, garnering experience and most of all,
getting lucky, as mending is considered a prerequisite to many.

~
With the Isle of Milady ready, we are ecstatic to start preparing the plenitude of challenges and
community competitions we have dreamed up and are still dreaming of for the Milady Com­
munity. You can expect to see charming builds, intricate enchantments, challenging, perhaps
even downright unfair hordes of monsters and bewildering dungeons located deep within in­
hospitable lands divided by sea, whose adventure and riches will transcend all that a default
Minecraft world has to offer.

25

5 Commentary
Art is at the foundation of the Remilia Collective and the Milady Community. Milady was
created as art long before she was created as an NFT line 52 , and every single person who
loves Milady loves art itself. This process is fundamental towards remaining as the foundation
of the Milady Server.
Our custom continent was conceived to encourage three things: (1) Community, (2) Beauty,
and (3) Wonder.

5.1 On Progression
Minecraft’s omnidirectional and infinitely potent utility is also its biggest hurdle in develop­
ing a proper progression of rewards. Finding gold bars and diamonds inside an abandoned
mineshaft chest are not titillating discoveries but rather pleasant little additions to an already
packed inventory of loot gathered during a mining expedition. The various stray bread and
cooked meats offer brief salvation to the more desperate players who had not prepared for
their expedition properly. There is very little to get truly excited about when you open up a
loot chest in Minecraft. The most valuable discoveries are either yet undiscovered seeds of
new plants allowing for entirely new crops to be grown or items unattainable in­game such as
the Heart of the Sea 53 .
This principle was applied when creating the design for the continent. Initially the plan
was to create a large contiguous landmass with distinct biomes, each holding a new type of
tree and crop previously unavailable to the playerbase. This was to provide players a steady
progression of discoveries and items to become excited about.
Limiting access to items may seem like a step backwards in making the game fun, but
you’ll find that many custom game modes utilize this principle towards extending the playtime
of the game. For example, Skyblock reduces you to the bare minimum of available items. By
acclimating the players to initial limitations, you give yourself resources to reward the players
as you release new updates.
Each new continent chunk was to be connected as part of a larger landmass. The format
has changed to large islands separated from each other due to the jarring effect of adding on
new parts of a continent over time.
This was a nonissue however because continuous waterways were planned to cut through
the entire full map. Rivers provide a means for players to travel long distances and explore
the new regions we create over time 54 . They act as roads for the best vehicle Minecraft can
provide. This also mimics the natural pattern of human history where we develop civilization
along bodies of water.

52
Please look forward to our DKP­style12 honorable participation social token which will be seamlessly
integrated in all further Milady­centric events, chiefly those within Minecraft. Bad karma, good shmarma, the list of
hidden achievements spans the equator and the jury is perpetually in session. Be ready, stay frosty, on your marks
ready set go, mere words would not suffice to describe the astonishment you effect into neophytes for how early
you continue to be. Fight for your life within the comforts of your owned spaces, virtually ―or wherever they might
be!
53

The Heart of the Sea is a vaunted item in Minecraft which, when combined with the shells of primordial
sea life, creates an item called a ‘conduit,’ which when placed in water will bless underwater players in a set range
surrounding it with the abilities of underwater breathing, underwater vision, and heightened block breaking speed
(which is normally heavily suppressed underwater, terror analogous to that of the real­life article is imparted to the
seasoned Minecraft player when they happen to get stuck under the ice and are nearly out of breath). Normally,
this item is only generated inside buried treasure, which can be located through treasure maps found around the
world or traded with villagers. Milady World however will not allow players to obtain such a powerful item through
such simple, inviolate ways. You’re going to have to work for it.
54
In Minecraft, exploration at long distances is not practical by horseback, the vehicle intended for rugged
land travel. Horses essentially shut down in any body of water and cannot be stored or transported beyond where
they can be ridden. They also represent high risk stores of value if they have been bred for good stats. In contrast,
the boat is a fast portable vehicle which can be broken down and carried. If lost or discarded, another one can
easily be made from scratch by scavenging wood of any kind.

26

All of this is integral because we very deliberately have withheld the use of teleportation
from the playerbase. The only teleport command available is the /spawn command. Nearly
every RPG player that properly envelopes themselves in a game will agree that manually trav­
eling to different locations is a much richer and more rewarding experience than quick travel
options.
The only people who lament the lack of quick travel are those who are burdened with
needless back and forth travel to fulfill arbitrary tasks. That IS a very valid reason to want to
avoid the monotony of physical traversing a game map, but it is a complaint resulting from
poor quest design.
The Milady Server does not have quests, nor does its map necessitate travel between loca­
tions for any particular reason. The atmosphere of the game is open adventure. Each feature
added into the game is an option for the player to utilize, rather than any requirement.
Furthermore, each item which the players desire from new unlocked regions are a one time
discovery. For example, once you discover a new crop from a freshly updated new island, it
will inevitably be available to the entire playerbase through sharing in the community. This
softly encourages them to participate in events planned out by the devs for introducing new
regions and custom adventure zones within each region. It is much more exciting and alluring
to be the among the first people to attain new unique items rather than being granted spares
or pilfering them from the leftover loot of your predecessors. This principle is also the chief
decision behind limiting Nether and End access initially, the two exceptions to the distant
travel necessities which will be explained further later.

5.2 On Socialized Beauty
The most important thing every Minecraft player builds is their home. Their home is the perfect
balance between function and form. Every good Minecrafter who fully realizes the potential of
the game takes time to make their home beautiful. Beauty is the core tenet of good art because a
good artist makes beautiful art and a good artist lives their art 55 . Therefore, building beautiful
homes is the functional principle around how we structured the server.
The act of creating art is a process of sacrifice because the act itself has no tangible benefit.
Art does not serve a functional purpose, it is an expenditure of time and resources towards
a goal which does not physically benefit anyone 56 . This turns all acts of art into acciden­
tal sacrifice rituals which are rewarded by otherworldly feelings in both the creator and the
audience.
Building and creating beautiful works so that they may be seen by others is the basic ele­
ment of motivating creation. Everyone who has created something generally feels good when
others are impressed by their creation.
This mechanism is at the heart of the Milady Server’s ethos.
So many accomplishments in life are only truly finished because of the mechanism of want­
ing to impress others. This is the core of why anyone does anything of value in Minecraft.
”After having played for many years, the only thing left which truly brings me back into the
game fuels any degree of effort I put into it is building.”

55

When we found out that some individuals do NOT live their art, we were as shocked as you probably
are upon hearing it for the first time, right now ―no, in fact we were and are still more shocked than you ever
will be, taking on the brunt of the shock for you; imagine the cartoon of a soldier taking on a hail of bullets to
protect the terrorized family, or that of a man saying wistfully “I’m fine,” to his loved ones whilst he is, in fact, most
definitely not fine, for he has been incised with a pincushion of knives still sticking out of his back. Milady could
be that person for you, except there would be no pain and remorse, only the sublimation into beauty. All it takes
is a simple right click save of the aforementioned and a quick Photoshop (okay, we’ll allow GIMP and Inkscape as
well) using Milady’s likeness and you’re set, it’s real. You live it now.
56
Art, much like crypto, is not a zero­sum game: happiness and enjoyment from the creation, curation
and adoration of art is a net gain on the positive sentiment in the world. Why should others wallow in collective
suffering, smallish as it might be disseminated, for my personal heights of enjoyment? That would not be right.
That would make art evil. What if I love to hate? A faulty system of belief that simply cannot sustain itself with how
good I’m feeling right now.

27

The act of interaction and enjoying company alone is not enough to stimulate presence.
There must be some goal or achievement which allows the player to fulfill an inner sense of
accomplishment.
The secret pool that ensures a longevity of activity: other people. Other people represent a
fueling of energy that becomes expended on activities which may become repetitive, tiresome,
and dull if it were not for the potential of interacting with others.
The playerbase was to be limited to a localized moderately sized landmass initially, pre­
venting rogue players from traveling tens of thousands of blocks to build distant homes where
no community could be established easily. Players have been provided a dense archipelago
of islands to build their homes and custom buildings on. This cluster of islands allows for boat
based travel into a continent divided up by a series of rivers cutting through elaborate pathways
along the entire continent.

5.3 On Generation
A most pertinent subject wandering in the minds of enthusiasts and builders alike in crypto­
related spheres is the question of permanence; after all, the sheer inception of Bitcoin as digital
currency was predicated on the notion of the blockchain as immutable historical record. With
NFTs and the art community surrounding it, much interest and thought is shown towards that
same question, of immutability and ways of creation that utilize the unique properties of the
blockchain.
Generative art interfaces with the blockchain in novel ways which solidifies the existence
of NFTs, by means of (partial) on­chain generative algorithm storage and seeds tied to the
transaction hash for minting the NFT token, assuring immutable provenance through exact
replication at any time by calling the generation code with the transaction hash pointing to
that specific NFT 57 .
A ‘seed’ essentially is a value tied to initialization of a program, typically used for random­
ization of such. Within Minecraft, the term is well known as the seed entirely determines how
one’s world will generate, or more eloquently put, where within the interminably expansive
world of nigh infinite permutations one is placed down to embark on their journey: when one
uses an identical seed, the Minecraft world generated shall always be an exact copy pertaining
to that seed 58 . A particular NFT project which embodies the shifting yet compartmentalized
modes of generation is Harm van den Dorpel’s Mutant Garden Seeder, an example of which
can be seen in Fig. 14, of which a plenitude relating its intricacies directly to Minecraft could
be written ―yet I shall simply state that it holds a dear avenue in the back of my mind and in
its hilarity, to the degree of slight nasal exhalation, the phrase ‘seed’ as part of its moniker; a
most apposite choice indeed.
Throughout Minecraft’s history, many players have taken it upon themselves to hunt down
seeds whose worlds regale you with various fantastic beauty upon generating, places you in
unknown, irregular environments of all sorts, or even provides you with ridiculous odds that
would be nearly impossible to find on a dime. Seeds are just as crucial, in both symbolic and
practical manners, to world generation in Minecraft as the parameters of generation themselves
59 .
57
Technically, NFTs could be made defunct through a 51% attack, oh my! No need to discuss the specifics
of that further within this document because it is a ludicrous assumption, you can absolutely take our word for
it. What if JavaScript and its popular libraries for generative and/or code art were to disappear from the gamut
of human knowledge and archive? What if the entire world shuns ‘on­chain,’ whatever that might mean, in all its
beautiful provenance and collectively comes to a consensus that it is beneath consideration and does not exist
―beyond intangibility? What shall we do, what can we do against such incontrovertible forces of occurrence when
they come to pass?
58

Presuming, of course, that one is using a version of Minecraft whose generation has not changed from the
version from which the seed was initially fetched: Minecraft’s world generation has gone through many changes
over the years, some more subtle than others. That does not mean that the seed is unusable, however, it simply
will cease to correspond to the previous world and instead create a new pattern.
59

Seeds in Minecraft can be represented by 64­bit numbers, although due to Java’s restriction on its Random,

28

Figure 14: Harm van den Dorpel’s Mutant Garden Seeder, token 485, ‘Car­
sie,’ shown at the moment of writing in its current state, having undergone
two mutations.
Creating a tailored Minecraft experience can be done in unison with generation, e.g. through
means mentioned earlier in Section 4, arbitrarily setting limits, covering them in a swathe of
biomes, and letting Minecraft piece it together and fill in the gaps; an outline with the coloring
never quite as same as the last. Methods which allow you to shape a rough definition with
varying degrees of precise scrutiny, generated accordingly to an expansive set of flourishes
complex enough to cause permutations you would have never dreamed of, exactly by virtue of
their sublime incidence; as if nature became embodied within mechanistic determinism and
rigid structure loses itself within frivolous expression, arranging intricate patterns with imper­
fect asymmetry and irregularity 60 . As such, our ideal of versatile but curated content within
Milady World follows the unpredictable nature of random generation, and while we try to gate
certain aspects of the game and direct them into further stages, our approach is as hands­off as
can be for generative beauty: every inch of Isle of Milady has been directed, not hand­effected.

they are effectively limited to 48­bit numbers. Additionally, a string input for a seed, such as ‘hi’ or ‘milady’ will
be converted into a hashcode of type int, reducing the amount of possible seeds with string inputs to 32 bits.
60

As the careful reader might have noticed, this paper is formatted within LATEX, further affirming our em­
brace of generative beauty: LATEX is a typesetter after all, we were never meant to exert complete control over its
output. Why don’t we turn THAT into an NFT, Milady World White Paper with randomly generated typesetting, the
rare holo Figure 5, MS PGothic font trait, oh my God, it even has a watermark.

29

5.4 On Spawn Design
It is universally accepted that large elaborate spawns are an annoyance which can often deter
new players entirely. Nothing is more irritating than spawning into a new Minecraft multiplayer
server and being greeted with a wall of colorful plugin text and over the top massive architec­
ture with no real understanding of how to exit and where to reach the wilderness. These garish
displays of architectural hubris create an obstacle towards playing the game and discourage
the player in creating things on their own.
As a rule, a player will always care more about their own dirt shack than your life size
replication of the Taj Mahal 61 62 . It is this personal sense of ownership and achievement we
wish to foster, so deliberate care was placed on making the wilderness accessible to the player
as quickly as possible from spawn.
Creative mode and tools such as world edit are useful towards creating custom architecture
and structures, but great care must be taken towards feasibility of design. Building something
in creative mode without restraint often leads to the natural disregard of a player when they
witness the creation.
The build must be held to a scale which the player can appreciate and effort must go towards
the right level of detail. Too large a scale and the player achieves a sort of “depersonalization”
where they see the creation as unmemorable. It carries the same glazed over effect as false
environments give you in amusement parks.
The impact is visually impressive but beyond that it doesn’t give a proper feeling of im­
mersion. This must be avoided by keeping the scale of the build in perspective to a survival
mode player. The impression is made effective when you focus on the details. This skill can
be fostered by collecting a number of tips and tricks when doing minor design.
For example, placing an open fence gate on a cauldron makes it look like a tiny wheelbar­
row. Stone buttons can be used as rocks in decoration. Placed string can halt the growth of
plants like reeds or bamboo without visual disruption. The more detailed you make your build,
the more fulfilling it will be to explore. Details are an important measure of real life design as
well.
Little things like the leafy flowery flourishment on a Corinthian style pillar used in even the
utilitarian modern light post are important because they mimic the fractal patterns of nature.
Physical reality exists in an infinite fractal of forms and details. The more detail you add to any
creation the more captivating it becomes to the audience.

5.5 Milady World’s Spawn
The Milady World’s Spawn location is a Japanese styled garden with a large pond. The spawn
itself is a small contained environment with four different exits provided in each direction. The
spawns chief structure is a pagoda with red background golden “M” banners displaying on all
sides and corners63 . Outside the spawn building is a courtyard holding a Japanese style zen
61

Skill is overrated. Skill overlaps with artistry, but to a lesser degree than they would let you believe; skilled
craftsmen who ultimately further nothing, have no impact on the artistic canon and leave no oeuvre deemed worthy
of remembrance are overrepresented in scores, most particularly so in the walled gardens of PDPT (Present Day,
Present Time) SNSes (Social Networking Service) ―and more often than not, those most irreverently belligerent,
ferociously obtuse and bellicosely irrelevant lack the modicum of said skill62 for them to be worthy of consideration.
From the opposite side, the boorish layperson lashes out in brutal argumentation: “This is not real art. Real art
takes skill. This is not real art because it is so unskilled, even I could make it,” yet they never will ‘make it’ (NGMI)
as they have just affirmed their own incompetence in skilled labour and simultaneous lack of artistic impression
for regarding the work below a baseline level of understanding. Critique is good, critique is what we want, feel free
to disprove hubris wherever you see it. But THIS? Ground Gear from World of Warcraft.
62
Conversely, contemporary artistry is plagued by a profound lack of skill as well; where students were
once trained according to a school of art and participated in rigorous practice to attain a baseline of shaping guile
and advanced praxis of fundamental technical principles, these days one could pass through the credentials with
various avenues of dilettantism.
63

This is both an obvious allusion to the M in Milady but it is also an inside joke, the team which worked
on Milady often spoke of a Jade McDonalds which grew from humorous references to McDonalds being the most

30

garden with a koi pond. Flowing into the pond is a waterfall sourced from a floating island,
an aetherial flower laden monument peppered by lit candles and minimally designed quartz
block statues mimicking Greek marble architecture.
The island serves the purpose of holding a light beacon pointing the sky, allowing players
to orient themselves against the spawn like the North Star. It also gives a light fantastical
otherworldly feeling to the server.
The garden is designed to provide a feeling of comfort and safety. Natural greenery and
falling leaf particle effects along with the waterfall sound provide a soothing atmosphere for
initial players to explore.
To the south and slight east of spawn lies the Milady Village. Or rather, the Archipelago.

5.6 Milady Fishing Village, or The Archipelago
A map of the Milady Fishing Village is available from the south entrance of spawn with a little
dispenser of brochures explaining the community zone, an in­game view of which can be seen
in Fig. 15. Next to it, an Enderchest waystation. This station models all future stations to be
placed near adventure zones of future continents. This mechanic provides a sort of banking
system for players to ensure their loot reaches home safely as they venture out into the world
discovering new regions.
The Milady Fishing Village comes with a free campfire and mending fishing rod to provide
players a quick and easy food source and cooking method. This provides the context for prop­
erly referring to the home zone as a fishing village and gives the players a relaxing activity
that keeps them out on the surface and more likely to encounter each other while they are
exploring the islands.
These homewarming gifts subtly steer the aesthetic and tone of the server 64
perfect fast food experience physically possible, and in many ways the genuinely most honest straightforward
public dining experience most Americans can enjoy; and desired to see its cross­over into the status of luxury.
Like so many of our jokes, it exists in the half satirical half serious state of observation that essentially nearly
all public dining experiences are generally unhealthy for you. The midrange restaurant would scam you out of
your money to feed you food that is just as unhealthy as traditional fast food due to the copious use of seed oils,
PUFAs, industrially cheap ingredients, and gluttonous portioning. The original intent of a restaurant was to be
an experience delegated only to the most wealthy and affluent members of society. Restaurants were originally a
very formal affair, ritualistically proper with a full retinue of complete service, and available only to a select few
members of the population. The spread of common restaurants throughout the population is a 20th century luxury
born of rampant consumerism and economic prosperity. An underlying constant in the culture and jokes told by
the founding community here is the Horseshoe effect. The essential premise of this philosophy is that there are
two extreme oppositions in every concept. The very ends of this horseshoe are both good because they fulfill the
Platonic ideal of what they should be. The middle ground is death. It is the meandering indecisive mediocrity,
a poor fence sitter between these two ideals which should be avoided at all costs. When applied to restaurants,
these two extremes are McDonalds and exquisite fine dining. The middle ground is one of the many thousands of
midrange restaurants and fast casual stand to order food venues which have spread throughout western society.
McDonalds was praised because it fulfills the most basic and direct role all fast food has more effectively than any
other is capable of. Their brand and their menu is the bar by which other fast food restaurants are measured by.
They provide food in the cheapest and fastest manner possible, balancing quality and efficiency in the most equal
ratio. Furthermore, McDonalds represents the most basic recognizable form of fast food which is iconic to American
culture: the burger. The burger is the classic American symbol. It represents fast food better than any other staple
And McDonalds represents the burger more recognizably than any other franchise. This observation was made
more humorous when juxtaposed against jade. Jade is a sacred stone used in luxurious art in many cultures, but
most recognizably Chinese culture. Our founding community’s specific obsession with jade was particularly the
Jade Cabbage. The Jadeite Cabbage is a museum piece originally displayed in the Forbidden City. It is a piece
of white and green jadeite carved into the shape of a Chinese cabbage on a small wooden platform. The carving
has many imitations and variations. The humor of the Jade Cabbage was the juxtaposition between a luxurious
expensive material displayed with elegant regality against the very thing it was depicting, a bland common food
known as a staple of peasantry. This synthesis of opulence and poverty was at the core of our horseshoe extremes
philosophy, the connecting of two oppositions. Its principle meaning applied itself quite easily to McDonalds, the
modern culinary staple of western peasantry. And so, the Jade McDonalds was born. It is not, in fact, a reference to
any memetic status McDonald’s may or may not hold with in the cryptocurrency community at the time of writing.
64

Not only are you gifted with non­fungible (you are not an admin) Minecraft items to favourably steer you
in whichever direction you desire, forget not that you are also a Milady holder & appreciator. This imposition is
ubiquitous amongst NFT­centered communities – and for good reason, for it solidifies a fundamental identity which
can be adopted by anyone entering the fray of community participants, see also the preface – but very few of them

31

Figure 15: Adding maps into the game was a supremely beneficial decision
for a multitude of aesthetic possibilities
First, procuring food by fishing is a more peaceful and conceptually lighthearted method
than by killing animals for meat. The latter is easily available as an option but the former is
made much easier and feasible when the items are granted to new players in exchange for
choosing an island as property.
Furthermore, build protection will be limited on the server, so the security of home can­
not be spread to dozens of various buildings in different places. Ease of access, proximity
to community, guaranteed food source, and geographic minor shepherding are the light en­
couragements which will steer the playerbase towards building their community within the
Archipelago 65 .
However, we will never restrict the player from building a home where they wish. Just like in
real life, there will always be a contingent of people who wish to live away from society. History
has shown that there is little profit or sense in trying to disrupt the natural urges of the free
thinkers and hermits. Yet, just like in real life, ostracizing oneself from the community involves
living without the conveniences provided by proximity to community. This fundamental design
principle will be the mechanic which splits the server into mildly opposing factions between
cooperative social groups and lone hermits, fueling the social dynamics which keep the energy
alive.
This expectation is the ideal split between archetypes, fostered by the slight guidance to­
wards the intended island zone. In all reality, the playerbase will most likely be in some happy
middle between fervent homesteading and rugged independence. I predict a great deal of
players will build personal private homes within running distance of spawn in all separate di­
rections, slightly private from each other. A select few may try to maintain as much distance
from spawn as possible, relying on bed respawns upon death and achieving maximum distance
from civilization simply to prove a point.
The necessity of owned space is an inherent principle in every society in history. Even
operate under hightime, unrelenting, beautifying artistic momentum like Milady does. Already is she shifting into
higher vibe strata, clambering spirally in the oblong constrained space of the digital world, peaks jutting out of the
valley from all those pleading to pierce the top. Heed not the firmament, you were in the know back when Milady
mined through the Obsidian Underground. You were here and you will never be square (again). Think about it.
65

Now, this scenario is very unlikely, and considering this mention henceforth, steered in all confidence
toward it not occurring, however: if by some chance no soul embarks upon the Archipelago and gleefully constructs
their To­Be Judged homestead upon one of the variegated, lovely islets that comprise its area – by that, we mean
absolutely nobody – we shall turn it into the most unforgiving hellscape one will ever witness during their lifetime,
both in this world and Minecraft, the latter soon to be concluded by the horrors that will flow abundantly from our
sneeringly obliterating indignation. We would weep caustic tears of furore and disdain, impinged on the area an
odoriferous crater of nothing but excruciating pain. But that won’t happen!

32

nomadic societies which held no ideas of land ownership still had their tents, teepees, and
yurts where they would rest each night. The concept of a place where your surroundings, be­
longings, and physical space can be protected by the comforts of limitation is considered to
be a fundamental human right. This natural desire is at the core of economics, and therefore,
crypto­economics. NFT technology seeks to utilize this desire towards creating entire indus­
tries around the sense of ownership digital spaces can provide. As we initially assign individual
islands to each player, you can only imagine the possibilities these plots of land will generate
as the server finds a stable future. The Archipelago land plots can become themselves tok­
enized and immortalized as purchasable space for a future where the Milady Minecraft server
grows to gargantuan participation. Beyond any restrictions, appeals, and rewards offered, the
greatest pull towards building a home on our Fishing Village Archipelago will be the tantaliz­
ing power of potential. There exists a potential for any and every plot of land below spawn to
become valuable property. Some to be auctioned to the highest bidders, others to be granted
by default to their existing active owners.
In the creation of social systems, the one rule is that there is always an exception to the rule.
A light touch almost always works better than stringent restrictions. The few total restrictions
made were all in the perspective of eventually being released access to players at some point
in the future in a manner that fits the vision for the server. These restrictions in particular
include the Nether and the End.

5.7 Restricting the Nether and the End
The decision to initially cut off player access to the Nether and the End were made in an effort
to reorient the game’s progression in a more exciting and rewarding manner. The biggest
issue with the Nether is its relative ease of access. Initially, there used to be a challenge to
mine as quickly as possible to create a Nether portal, a staple of the Minecraft speedrunning
66 community.
With the inclusion of randomly spawned portal ruins, a stroll into the Nether can be ac­
complished now without even the need for a diamond pickaxe 67 . The common use of Nether
portals in various player homes litters the environment with what should have been a mystical
and unsettling presence.
This reduces the impact of entering a horror dimension into some basic lawn furniture that
everyone adds to their home like some suburban requirement. The End is only slightly better
in that it requires the player to journey towards a singular destination to reach it.
Both of the alternate dimensions leave much to be desired. They are initially unsettling
to new players but it’s almost guaranteed that anyone participating in the Milady Minecraft
Server is not a new player. An unfortunate consequence of playing a game consistently is
that atmospheric environments are burned into routine obstacle courses for the experienced
players to farm and harvest with robotic precision. This sort of rote mechanical playstyle is
something we wish to avoid with the Milady Server.
The Nether and the End will both receive a custom hellish wasteland region of specific
deliberate design.
My personal idea for the Nether will be a volcano temple with a bridge in classic RPG

66

apparently they have something called piglins in the Nether now and they love gold??? they restructured
the entire Nether and they retconned the pigmen into piglins and theyre also no longer a zombie hivemind because
both of em coexist now, I think??? you cant tell me thats an allegory. imagine if people could coexist next to zombies.
wait. normies. holy shit.
67

A diamond pickaxe is the minimum tool tier required to be able to mine/break obsidian, from which a
Nether portal is constructed; before the introduction of netherite, diamond was the strongest material for crafting
tools, armor and weaponry in the game and still is visually the most recognizable due to its characteristic light blue
color. Many Minecraft mods have been created with the purpose of surpassing diamond supremacy with varying,
increasing and overbearing levels of power, featuring either similar methods of acquisition by simply tunneling into
the earth or complex crafting structures bearing all sorts of requirements. The glean of the diamond in Minecraft
is hard surpassed however, as the functional epitome to most of these supplemental crafting materials is simply to
mine stone just a tad faster.

33

68 style.

The surrounding environment will be ashen, rocky, and hostile. The terrain will be
extreme and the distance from spawn should be ideal. Not so far it becomes an inconvenience
to such a degree that players develop a Nether­centric community in close proximity (although
I do expect a few players to actually do this) but not so close that it ruins the impact of what
the Nether should be entirely.
Further, the Nether dimension will be reoriented towards a customized continent that fea­
tures every of its unique biomes in equal portions of similar size to spawn, if not larger. At the
time of this writing, it is unclear the exact method used to overhaul Netherite generation, but
such a mechanic is integral in my personal opinion.
Netherite harvesting is a procedurally dull task which implicitly encourages the use of X­Ray
packs 69 due to its painful monotony. This is something I have the utmost focus on preventing.

5.8 On the Journey
The Journey is the most classic element of storytelling, adventure, and RPG gameplay. Jour­
neying long distances is also a large portion of Minecraft’s game mechanics.
It’s disappointing when you consider Minecraft doesn’t really place a great deal of rewards
for exploring its diverse and often fantastical biomes 70 . The most exciting things to see when
you travel a great distance are “man made” structures such as villages, ruins, temples, dun­
geons, and larger structures. Each update seems to understand and attempt to mitigate this
shallowness by adding things such as underwater monuments, shipwrecks, buried treasure etc.
However there is very little offered as a reward for discovery as far as simultaneously unique
and useful items comes to mind.
The entire server has been crafted around fostering a sense of adventurous journey when
leaving the confines of home. Custom structures will be littered throughout the server as more
regions are added. Ambient adventure is the best approach for a large custom world. Trying to
railroad players into a specific pathway of events requires egregious use of world limitations,
something we would initially like to keep to a minimum.
There is going to be one larger protected zone where players cannot destroy blocks per
each new region. These will have more hands on detailed builds added, with features that
incentivize player travel. Smaller structures left around various parts of the world will be left
alterable by players to allow for free modification, adaptation into personal use, or even com­
plete destructive harvesting if the player so wishes.
Server events will generally follow a combination of organic exploration mixed with an
underlying choreographed journey.

68

Exactly what I mean. Textual waylay, irascible efflux, Feeling So Nixed right now. Unfettered, sclerotic,
highfalutin & aggrieved, aphoristic and tortuous mantic digerati. Hey DJ, spin it around for the landing œn Phoan
Neim!
69

Do NOT look this up! X­Ray packs are known to – as some sort of moral ultimatum, a pound of flesh if
you will – hack all your crypto wallets, funnel out all of the funds, encrypt your files, wipe them, then encrypt them
again, leave taunting messages all over your workspace and ultimately cause a great deal of suffering to whomever
dares to install them. It does allow you to peer through the earth and exactly locate all ores and other valuables
though. Oh and if you try to use a VM or a device with nothing critical stored on it it will cause a power surge.
70

When spotting a desert temple across the horizon, do your eyes gleam with wonder and does your smile
curl with delight upon possibly unearthing a highly vaunted enchanted golden apple from its trapped basement
below? Or would it rather be the trap itself that enthralls you, comprising a most devious stack of TNT when
expertly dismantled? Be wary of getting the blocks you mine to not drop indiscriminately, lest they fall onto the
pressure plates and send the thing to Kablooie! I’ve actually saved someone’s life doing that once. The fiend in
question was looting and whilst I was trying to get an entry up above, the block dropped right onto the plate and
Hilarity Ensued. It would have been perfect if the blast, despite favorably reducing the interloper to bits, had not
given way to a pool of lava down below, incinerating all of his items and more importantly, the ones I had carefully
named with it. My Blue Suede Shoes (it’s diamond, you see), my Ceremonial Leather Harness (also diamond, it
alludes to quite a curious item with the same namesake in WoW. Go ahead, look it up, haha.) and all the other aptly
named treasures that I cannot call to mind, gone in an instant. It sounds absolutely ridiculous and uncanny. But It
Happened.

34

From personal experience, the most fun a multiplayer Minecraft server can have is the expe­
dition. The most common vanilla expeditions revolve around several big game structures, the
most quintessentially famous being the slaying of the End dragon. However there are dozens
of available strongholds in the game, the initial three being available within a two thousand
block radius from spawn.
Longer journeys which require several day travels from home provide a much greater feel­
ing of adventure. In vanilla, the two current overworld journeys which foster a Lord of the
Rings­esque RPG 71 quest feeling are the search for the jungle and more notably, the hunt for
the Forest Manor.
The rate at which jungles are generated originally was equal to that of any other biome but
has now become a rarity for players to reach. The jungle is an exceptionally important biome
to players because it contains access to several plant types and mobs which cannot be found
in other biomes.
In a server I recently played, a depiction of said venture also visible in Fig. 16, I had to
travel 15,000 blocks to find a single jungle. Years ago, the process of finding a forest mansion
led me to travel 14,000 blocks 72 . Any distance beyond 2,500 blocks of travel requires the
player to adopt a kit, which generally includes a bed, a boat, a dedicated row of tools, and a
decent stack of food. Horses can be a useful addition to great distances of travel but inevitably
large bodies of water will interrupt any efficient use of horse riding. The boat is your bread
and butter when you go on long journeys. This is why we opted to create a server with lengthy
and intercrossing rivers which act as roads for the player to use while travelling. Actual roads
were planned as well to encourage the utility of horses, but once a fully contiguous continent
was deemed unfeasible, the river method held precedent.

5.9 On Casuals vs. Try­hards
The entire ethos of the Milady Server is to encourage the community into light play. The tryhard
underground tunneler is a staple of Minecraft but no player should be forced into obsessive
autismal behavior to simply benefit from a natural feature of the game. This same reason is
why we will be looking into tweaking the enchantment system 73 .
Many parts of minecraft require such polishing. It is always fun to create farms 74 and
71

I cannot take this anymore. My weary, stomped on soul cries out in anhedonic anguish, terrorized by the
uncertain timing of the swift pain’s powerful strike. I do not know what an RPG is, nor will I ever. Do you enjoy
the idea of inscrutable phenomena encapsulated into language, abstracted from sensory impression entirely? An
animal knows it can die and tries its utmost to survive, as does it comprehend and see death when it is carried
out by or laid out before it. An animal does not fear death, however, as this abstraction is divorced from sensory
impression. An animal has not the slightest clue what an RPG is either, but this lack of comprehension stems from
that same inability to abstract, and not the unsettling awareness of the unknown. I envy them.
72
This phenomenon is without a doubt The Most Terrible, The Most Fucked Up Thing about Minecraft
and by extension many open­world games which set no tangible limit to randomization: somewhere out there, in
this world, there exists a player traversing the world of Minecraft, hopelessly searching for a jungle they may never
find for lot ordained it not to be so. Imagine being the player who never finds a jungle, who never gazes upon its
dense foliage and unique spoils, never obtains the gottdamn cocoa beans (cacao). Imagine being the player who
will never amount to anything because ‘percentages’ as they describe it – most likely foaming from the mouth with
sardonic glee – stretch unto infinity and technically allows for it to happen ―for things to NOT happen. Go ahead,
look up ‘geometric series,’ you’re not going to believe what you see and that they were able to get away with this.
There are ocelots in the jungle, it’s insane.
73
Basic Minecraft enchantments suck! We said it & we said it again. There is no reason for the mind­dulling
grind that subsumes carefully­spent time necessary for maxxed­out armor and weapons. I could simply put down
an ol’ bucket o’ lava to constrain your movement and fishing rod you in and even though it is unlikely to kill you
since you run with That Protection IV on Everything what is stopping me from putting down the End crystal click
click boom we’re on hard mode boyo that’s right nothing. Hence, an alternative approach.
74
Farms to farm anything that can be farmed, hence the term; to use or abuse typically in repetitive manner
and laid out as efficient and/or efficacious as possible for the highest yield per timeframe. Within Minecraft for
instance, creating a funnel for hostile mobs to spawn in great numbers, then plunging them down a chute to fall
to nearly their deaths, into a cramped box whereupon the player whacks their sword to garner both item drops
and experience pointz, the latter of which only begotten at their hands personally. This is just for all you nascent

35

Figure 16: This particular voyage had taken a full Minecraft week. Such treks
have been integral to developing a good sense around the adventurous ele­
ments Minecraft can provide.
think about how to game the system towards maximum benefit, but in multiplayer especially,
it becomes laborious and even exhausting to try to maintain an arms race competition with
other players. You feel an underlying sense of pressure in collecting resources, reaching new
benchmarks of progression, and maintaining equal status with others.
This feeling reaches its peak in anarchy PvP servers where the entire playstyle is built
around an insurgent level alertness. The homes are underground holes, the players are suspi­
cious of each other, and the feeling is unsteady hostility. This is very fun if you have an intent
to play the game to its maximum, but there is an unequal dynamic between two types of players
which becomes trampled when you embrace the PvP atmosphere. Fig. 17 shows the typical
sights of virtually any anarchy server as they develop 75 .

Figure 17: Minecraft anarchy servers thrive on subverting serenity through
the most primary means of expression: building and the total destruction of
such. Both images in this figure describe fundamental states of abject lawless­
ness which is unavoidable in any server without rules nor social cohesion, an
eschatological pair of states between which is irrevocably bounced: on the left,
griefed, suspended remains of what once must have been an assorted whole
of creations; on the right, the blotting out of the atmosphere by an enormous
lava­casted wall, a means of additive griefing in Minecraft allowing for a wide
surface to be covered in cobblestone with relative facility75 .
noplayerz out there. Wait, I completely forgot, yield farms are a thing ―you do understand, yeah! Yield farms which
reap you terrific reward in a repetitive structure! You ARE earning, right?
75

This pair of provided images is courtesy of my own fastidious handywork: the landscapes pictured were

36

The Casual­Tryhard dynamic is a consistent dichotomy in nearly every multiplayer game
that must be balanced carefully. Casuals make up a greater portion of revenue in traditional
multiplayer games. Their presence allows for the greatest degree of fun to be had by all because
they act as both cannon fodder for Tryhards and represent a caste of playstyle to enter for all
newcomers.
The Tryhard is a minority of the game community but they are responsible for a great de­
gree of lore knowledge, meta development, and defining game culture. They are the ceaseless
soldiers in the trenches of any multiplayer game 76 77 . Both of these archetypes are necessary
to make any multiplayer game fun. They generally have a soft derision towards each other
and an often short sighted company will cater more towards the Casual playerbase than the
Tryhards.
While this is technically the correct decision to make, often it is taken too far and Tryhards
become punished for their own ingenuity. The methods they discover towards pursuing max­
imum efficiency are often revoked through patches and updates. Tryhards are necessary for
discovering innovations in games themselves, such as surfing and bunnyhopping.
The efforts of a zealously obsessive minority often shift the boundaries of entire cultures, it
is their toil which pushes the wheel of time forward. A game which strangles the Tryhard too
much is a stale child’s playpen which offers no lasting consistent satisfaction. However, the
Tryhard must be kept in check and great care must be dedicated towards the Casual player.
Even the most primary action in Minecraft, that being mining, can be menially 78 gamed by
those willing to attempt it, see also Fig. 18.
If this is not done, a game can be completely ruined by a cabal of jobless NEETs who snuff
out any opportunity for organic fun. There are thousands of dead multiplayer games kept
barely alive by a contingent of obsessive super­players who thoroughly crush any opportunity
for new players to enjoy the game unless they decide to dedicate unreasonable portions of
their time towards mastering a highly developed meta. Melee combat games are unplayable
for newcomers on an average approximately three months after their release.
The Milady Community is primarily accessible only to verified holders of the Milady NFT.
This implies that its community will be populated by young adults who have some source of
income to allow them to make investments and large purchases. We felt that it was necessary
to steer the server culture towards a more casual playstyle.
griefed by none other than myself, carried out in servers whose identity will remain unmentioned for their safety and
well­being, throughout various points during 2020. I have deliberately showcased these pictures as they provide
excellent visual commentary to my overall artistic canon of destruction (playfully referred to as ‘the cannon’ at
times during sporadic grief­meets), without revealing their methods in sufficient, replicable detail. This as a barrier
of entry to sloven iconoclasts whose omnipresent entry into Minecraft servers would sully unmarred obliteration if
accidentally initiated into a spurious simulacrum of the art.
76

To the multiplayer Tryhard, your livelihood is nothing but a shred of enjoyment in pursuit of an exponen­
tially insurmountable high. Tryhardism is a internecine loop, as each of its adherents’ subsequent efforts reward
them with increasingly less and has to be equaled with more distress from other players around them77 . A similar
but psychologically less playful phenomenon can also be correlated with the history of war throughout the 20th
century.
77

Milady says: wind down, blow off some steam, unfurl the furrows that plague your headspace, break
down all walls and collapse upon yourself. Everyone deserves a second chance ―to die!
78

Commonly, acts of tryharding constitute ‘creative use of game mechanics’ as it is referred to in the lit­
erature, and excessive furor toward developing ability well beyond the striving of the common gamer. However,
beyond developed and inherent talent for intuition, menial tasks comprise a great deal in this development: fighting
games require the player to memorize various combinations of button presses and timings to be able to compete;
FPS players frequently practice how to track and twitch aim at targets to uphold and improve their level of accu­
racy, beyond mere reaction times; (MMO)RPGs79 and various strategy games have players benefit greatly if they
meticulously know the ins and outs of all forms of skills, stats and item specifications. Clearly, a lot of effort is
expended by the Tryhard into asserting a position above all others. One would have to wonder whether this would
translate to other skills, outside their niche continuum.
79

Huh? I’m sorry, what did you mean? I can’t see it. Can you tell me again I don’t think it’s there, it’s
not showing up for me. Uhm yeah I think it’s not working for me I have a problem right now. Can I do something?
Hello? Hellooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

37

Figure 18: Underground strip mining, as shown from a top­down perspective
through a Minecraft map viewer, committed by likely the same individual, over
both the Overworld on the left and the Nether on the right. Curious as it might
look, this player is exhausting the opportunities to find rare materials close to
the bottom of the map, exposing the most amount of blocks within an area
with the least effort required.
Most of the playerbase will likely consist of people who only have time to play one or two
days out of the week, most likely for hosted events. Such a person would have little motivation
to develop an investment into the server if they felt that their efforts would be dwarfed by an
obsessive constant Tryhard community. This is why we’re developing 80 to pan out Milady
World with continent and island­based releases. New items and regions are available on an
equal rate of progress for every member of our server. Each update will be designed in a
manner that does not strangle the intrepid and does not coddle the indifferent.

5.10 On Exploration
Once you have explored nearly every feature a game has to offer, the only new things it can
offer is what other people have created. This element of creativity and third party modification
is what keeps games alive. Fallout 81 and The Elder Scrolls are game series famed for having
their community­created mods become more integral to the game than the original game itself.

80
Ah ah! This is the part where one could have expected, where one could have inserted into the text the
most villainous and deplorable of crypto verbiage: the all­too dreaded, emaciating, terror­clad and soul­shattering
ROADMAP ―and this abject corner of the page is the only place where you will find it. Roadmap, roadmap,
roadmap. Have I ever told you guys how I upset a Minecraft social dynamics by mapping out a single road? It was
extremely straight and efficient, but it was not liked for exactly those properties, despite my dilettante, incidental
penchant for creating geodesic lines (throwing out the DNR on ‘Curved Minecraft theory’) and was meticulously
erased with all trace of it instead pointing toward an undulating “““““natural””””” road, which I thereupon flooded
as well as the town it lead to. Numerous times.
81

For many gamerz, invocation of ‘Fallout’ evokes fond memories to those dang post­apocalyptic open
world, FPS, ‘like Skyrim with guns’ – except curiously, for the games that bore this moniker, having released
before Skyrim itself – game series. This is also what we are referring to in this brief mention, as clearly no soul
gives a damn about Fallout 1 and 2, which were isometric, … some type of games. Milady Gamer Tip: in Fallout:NV,
when inside the Sierra Madre, remember that items can be deposited into corpses, who customarily have pockets
the size of a dimension. Those corpses can be dragged. That’ll be all!

38

Even the act of modding a Bethesda game 82 is in itself a fun game to play, stimulating the
obsessive satisfaction one gets when they accrue new things. Playing mods for other games
allow the player to explore the creations of others and experience something new.
When you join the Milady Server, you are exploring the world within which we have created.
By doing so, you are exploring our thoughts and discovering hints towards how we think and
how we create. However, we are doing the same to you. We watch as you populate our humble
server and create things of your own. The interaction is dynamic and dual. We witness the
playerbase grab hold of and manipulate the mechanics we place before you.
We have no doubt that the playerbase will do things with the Milady Server that I had not
previously considered. The most unpredictable element of any system is the human element,
see also Fig. 19. Those who feel that they can master the will of others and predict it to accuracy
harbor an arrogance which will be punished by circumstance and time. The most important
part of any game is other people. Human beings contain the divine spark of random chance
buried deep within their souls that allows for games to truly become experiences. The element
of play is deeply spiritual. It manifests itself when unburdened minds are given an environment
to experience.

(a) The Chinese nail house perfectly demonstrates
the stubborn tenacity in human nature and personal
ownership of property.

(b) Technically, so does the Pixar movie “Up”

Figure 19: Depictions of structural stubbornness as they might well be ex­
pressed within Milady World.

82
Which players are downright expected to do, given the utility of even installing an expansive bug­fix
mod, that in many cases resolves plenty of issues and regales the game with content that pitiful console­ONLY
players83 would never be able to experience, while they PAID for it, too.
83

Yes we can say it, are you reading this whitepaper from your console, huh? Are you disgruntled of our
two­word irreverent attitude toward console players regarding bugfixes especially for Bethesda games, growling
from your cracked PS3 Fat Red Ribbon Linux distro?

39

6 Conclusion
The games children play when left unsupervised mimic the natural tribalistic instincts of hu­
man beings along our pathway of development as a civilization. In a Lord of the Flies­esque
manner, children who find themselves aimlessly gathering in organic groups develop their own
territories over time; a gang forms in any gathering of children in unsupervised environments.
Eventually as these groups expand and travel, they encounter each other and dispute over
territory or personal issues. Over time, in combination with poverty, the abuse of substances,
and the increasing familiarity with penal consequence, these disputes escalate from fistfights.
They begin to use weapons like chains, broken bottles, and tools. Eventually, they develop
violent encounters with firearms and form into armed gangs.
This natural mechanism of human existence is why many police organizations create youth
programs. They seek to inhibit the natural consequences of people gathering together without
aim. When you allow people to do as they wish in a social gathering without restriction or
consequence, they develop curious habits which offer insight to how we developed as a species.
The principles of human behavior reflect themselves in games. Countless multiplayer games
have revealed curious and fascinating trends, sometimes even producing epic stories of organic
adventure or tragedy. For example, the 2005 ‘Corrupted Blood Incident’ in World of Warcraft
presented a situation where high level players could spread a contagious lethal virus through­
out the entire game. The in­game pandemic lasted for a full month and saw abandonment of
major in­game cities and server quarantines before the entire game was reset. The incident
was studied heavily by epidemiologists and various government agencies as a model for how
viruses spread and how terror cells can engage in biological warfare.
With Milady World, we intend to harness human impulse unto inner fulfillment, the will to
power and, as has been stated a million times over, foster creativity inside the open, highly ma­
nipulable and immersive environment of Minecraft, which is still like none other in its plethora
of possibilities. For numerous decades, the idea of a computerized para­world, a digital play­
ground and immersive social space not bound by, but equally capable of replicating the laws
of nature as we perceive them, cyberspace, virtual reality, a metaverse has permeated the
minds of dreamers, hackers, academics ―and possibly anyone who took the time to reflect
alike. In this day and age, the videogame industry has reached a degree of commodification
equaling broad mass­media consumption. Yet, the spirit of gaming and human desire for play
seems equally stifled through this trend; although market movement coupled with current­day
processing power might finally engender those hopes for digital immersive environments that
truly could feel more real than reality itself, we must never forget where we come from; we
must never forget who we want to be, and stave off the suffocating sheen of modernity that
is accompanied by all its luster. Milady World might seem simple, as it is solely a Minecraft
server – factually that is correct – but with it we wish to explore modes of sociality within this
exciting age of budding Web decentralization.
Nearly everyone who plays video games has at least one memorable unique story induced
by their own actions or the actions of others. A game on its own is not the fun of playing, it
is simply a foundation for the actions of humanity which create true fun. By focusing on the
behaviors of human beings, the experiences which come from interacting with others, and the
elements of good multiplayer experiences in the past, and recognizing that socialization that
occurs in the virtual world is real, it’s beyond ‘just a game’; we hope to create the conditions
memorable events in the hearts and minds of the Milady Community. Everything is real.

40

Figure 20: Milady loves Minecraft! And Milady loves you!

Figure 21: Why are YOU still here?! Get to it!
41

Your Names, Please

42

